Jackson J on April 15 PJS The subject of this application has attracted much attention. Some may still question whether the case merits the weight of legal attention which it has received. But the majority of this Court has concluded that, in the light of legal principles that were effectively uncontroversial and for reasons more particularly summarised in paras The appeal falls to be determined by reference to the Human Rights Act 1998 (HRA) and the ECHR rights scheduled to it. On 12 April 2016 NGN applied to the Court of Appeal to set aside the interim injunction granted on 22 January 2016, on the grounds that the protected information was now in the public domain, and When refusing an injunction on 15 January 2016, Cranston J: accepted that the appellant had a reasonable expectation that his sexual (i) activities would remain private, (ii) added that he was especially troubled by the childrens privacy interests under ECHR article 8, though these could not operate as a trump card, (iii) rejected the respondents suggestion that the proposed publication went to any (i) HRA section 12There is, as all members of the Supreme Court conclude, a clear error of law in the Court of Appeals reasoning in relation to section 12. For reasons given in para 20 below, it consists in the self direction that section 12 enhances the weight which article 10 rights carry in the balancing exercise (para The Court of Appeal error in its initial self direction is however contrary to considerable authority, including authority at the highest level, which establishes that, even at the interlocutory stage, (i) neither article has preference over the other, (ii) where their values are in conflict, what is necessary is an intense focus on the comparative importance of the rights being claimed in the individual case Mr Desmond Browne QC for the appellant submits the Court of Appeal also erred by too close an assimilation of a claim based on the tort of invasion of privacy with breach of confidence. Jackson LJ recognised, correctly, that the former attracts greater protection than the latter (para 36 of his judgment: see para 17(i) above 19. It will be apparent that the circumstances in CTB bore some relevant similarities to those of the present case. In particular, reliance was placed on internet disclosures subsequent to the original injunction in support of an application to set aside the injunction on the basis that it served no further useful protective purpose. This situation was distinguished in principle from that where paras 26 32). In my opinion, the approach is sound in general principle. The courts have to apply HRA section 12, and, before restraining publication prior to trial, have in particular to be satisfied that the applicant is likely to establish that publication should not be allowed. They have, under section 12( Mr Browne makes a fourth criticism of the Court of Appeals approach to the exercise of its discretion. The Court of Appeal in granting injunctive relief in January 2016 identified as relevant consequences of the proposed article both that the children would become the subject of increased press attention, with all that that entails and that, even if they do not suffer harassment in the short term, they are The issue which we have to decide is whether to uphold or reverse the decision of the Court of Appeal to lift an interlocutory injunction which it had previously granted at the suit of PJS, who is married to YMA, and they have two young children. Once again, it is necessary to consider the particular facts. That It appears to me that this Court is entitled to reconsider the issue raised on this appeal for ourselves. In his earlier judgment in which he decided to grant the injunction, Jackson LJ decided that there was no public interest in the story being published (see [2016] EWCA Civ 100, para 53), and, as that finding has unsurprisingly not been although it is clear, principled it by the Court of Appeal that there is no public interest in publication of the story, and that, were it not for the publicity which has occurred since January 2016, it is likely that a permanent injunction would be granted. However, claims based on respect for privacy and family life do not depend on confidentiality (or secrecy I would therefore grant PJS permission to appeal to this Court, set aside the decision of the Court of Appeal on 18 April 2016, and continue the injunction granted on 22 January 2016, because it seems that PJS seems it seems it likely it would be unlawful for the story to be published in the Sun on Sunday and other newspapers and got out I agree that this appeal should be allowed and the interim injunction restored for the reasons given by Lord Mance. I wish only to add a few words about the interests of the two children whom PJS has with YMA. Of course they cannot always rule the day. But they deserve closer attention than they have so far received in this case, I agree with Lord Mance that the Court of Appeal for essentially the same reasons as the court in its January judgment on the issue of the injunction. That injunction provided that NGN (as I will refer to the respondent) should not publish any information which might lead to PJSs identification, or any of the information referred to in a confidential schedule The Court of Appeal did not accept the NGNs argument that the temporary injunction had been made on the basis of the fact that the information had been widely available to the public. It said that the process of excoriation which PJS fears was going to be carried on for the next nine months or more, was the result of the information “I would