50 The issue in this case is the proper approach of the immigration appellate authorities where the Secretary of State has decided that a national of the European Economic Area who is lawfully living in the United Kingdom should be removed on the ground of abuse of the right to reside here. The abuse in question happened to be an alleged attempt to enter into a marriage of convenience but the issue would arise in respect of any abuse which would justify removal under article 35 of Directive 2004/38/EC on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States (the Directive). The factsMs Sadovska is a citizen of Lithuania. She came to this country lawfully in February 2007 and has since been living and working here lawfully, exercising her rights under the Directive. She lives in Edinburgh, where her sisters also live, and works as a cleaner. On 25 March 2014, they published notice of their intention to marry on 17 April 2014 at Leith Registry Office. That statement was enclosed in a letter dated 11 April 2014, sent by solicitors acting for Mr Malik (and, it would appear, also for Ms Sadovski) to the Home Office in Glasgow. This explained that their client was an over stayer, but that he intended to marry an EEA Ms Sadovska and Mr Malik were removed from the UK on the grounds that they were not party to a marriage of convenience. In each case, the notice was accompanied with notice of a decision to remove. Both appealed to the First tier Tribunal which heard their appeals together on 4 August 2014 and promulgated a determination refusing them both on 19 August 2014. The notice referred to regulation 19(3)(c) of the Immigration (European Economic Area) Regulations 2006. At the time, this provided that an EEA national who has entered the United Kingdom . may be removed if (c) the Secretary of State has decided that the persons removal is justified on grounds of abuse of rights in accordance with regulation 21B(2). However First Division of the Inner House of the Court of Session, [2016] CSIH 51. They now appeal to this court. They make two complaints about the decisions of the tribunals and court below. The first, and most important, relates to the burden of proof in a case such as this. Their appeals to the Upper Tribunal were heard on 5 February 2015 and a determination refused them was promulgated on 9 February 2015. Regulation 24(1) provided that where a decision of removal was taken in the light of the totality of the information before me, including the assessment of A Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on guidance for the better transposition and application of Directive 2004/38/EC, dated 2 July 2009, has this to say about marriages of convenience, at para 4. It differs significantly as between the two appellants. Ms Sadovska is an EEA national. She has been living lawfully in the United Kingdom for a continuous period of more than five years. This means that, under article 16 of the Directive, she has the right of permanent residence here. None of the conditions attached to the right to stay in the UK for more than three months, provided for in article 7 of the directive, applies. Her rights are therefore governed by the 2006 Regulations were designed to implement in UK law. However, Recital 28 to the Directive states that: To guard against abuse of rights or fraud, particularly in the case of marriages or any other form of relationships contracted for the sole purpose of enjoying the rights of free movement and residence, member states should have the possibility to adopt the necessary measures. Any such measure shall be proportionate and subject to the procedural safeguards provided for by article 30 and 31. Article 30 requires that the person concerned be notified in writing of the decision and informed precisely and in full of the reason for it and where and within what time that person may lodge It is clear from the provisions of the Directive quoted above that Ms Sadovska has a right of permanent residence in the United Kingdom. As an EU citizen, under article 27.1, her freedom of movement can only be restricted on grounds of public policy, public security or public health. It is not suggested that she can be removed under article 28 on any of those grounds. Article 8.1 guarantees the right to respect for private and family life, although under article 8.2 interference is justified if it is in accordance with the law and necessary in a democratic society to achieve a legitimate aim. However, article 3.2 requires the respondent to justify any refusal of entry or residence in such cases. For this purpose, marriage of convenience is a term of article Although it is defined in the Directive and the 2009 Communication as a marriage the sole purpose of which is to gain rights of entry to the European Union, the 2014 Handbook suggests a more flexible approach, in which this must be the predominant purpose. It must the marriage may bring incidental immigration and other benefits if this is not its predominant purpose of them both. The respondent is seeking to take away established rights. The First tier Tribunal did not analyse her rights in this way. Nor did the determination address the issue of proportionality. She had established rights and it The appellants are entitled to claim that their marriage was frustrated by the respondents actions. But for my part I would not accept their argument that, because their marriage