The statutory framework during the relevant period was contained in the Children and Young Persons Act 1969 (the 1969 Act), the Child Care Act 1980 (the 1980 Act), and the Boarding Out of Children Regulations 1955 (SI 1955/1377) (the Regulations). The claimant was committed to the care of the local The evidence of social care experts was that children in care are placed in foster care wherever it is considered safe and appropriate to do so, since it is a fundamental principle of social work practice that children are best placed in a family environment. That principle had been established by the time the claimant was in care. The process of becoming a foster care involves extensive The trial judge, J, dealt with later the issues of conduct to the childs social worker and the foster parents, and the local authority was responsible for the care of the child. It appears from the evidence that, besides the matters specifically mentioned in the Regulations, there were other aspects of the life of a child in foster care which were decided by as L was delegated to the foster parents: it was they who exercised the day to day care of the child. The foster parents role was to provide family life, bringing up the child as a member of their own family. That was a benefit to the children in foster care and was necessary in order to give them the experience of Liability in tort normally depends on the breach of a duty owed by the defendant to the claimant. Tortious liabilities based not on personal fault but on a duty to ensure that care is taken are exceptional, and have to be kept within reasonable limits. The only true exception to that principle under the common law is vicarious liability, where for reasons of An appropriate starting point is section 10 of the 1980 Act. As was explained earlier, section 10(1) requires a local authority to whose care a child is committed by a care order to receive the child into their care and . to keep him in their care while the order . is in force. Section 10(2) provides that a Section 21 is also relevant in another respect. Local authorities are in a different position from parents, or other individuals having temporary care and control of children, in a variety of ways. Although there are differences between the position of local authorities and that of parents, children in care have the same needs as other children. In particular, it The question whether local authorities are vicariously liable for torts committed by foster parents against children placed with them while in care was previously considered by the Court of Appeal in S v Walsall Metropolitan Borough Council [1985] 1 WLR 1150. Oliver LJ, giving an ex tempore judgment with which Bal Three of the four factors were said to be of independent significance. They were: (i) the employer is more likely to have the means to compensate the victim than the employee and can be expected to have insured against that liability; (ii) the tort will have been committed as a result of activity being taken by the employee on behalf of the employer; ( It was explained that the foster parents were responsible for the care of the child and the promotion of her welfare, in order for her to receive care in the setting which they considered would best promote her welfare. The local authority were required under the Regulations to arrange regular medical examinations of fostered children, to ensure that the children were regularly visited, to The Court of Appeal's analysis was based on the premise that local authorities might be deterred by considerations from performing statutory duty to protect the welfare of children in foster care. On the other hand, it was said, it might discourage the use of foster care in favour of residential care: an alternative which would be less effective in promoting For these reasons I would allow the appeal, and hold that the local authority are vicariously liable for the torts committed by the foster parents in the present case. Lord Hughes refers in that regard to observations made by Sir Nicolas Browne Wilkinson V C in Surtees v Kingston on Thames Borough Council at p 583, 7. Although the present case arises in the context of the regime under the Children and Young Persons Act 1969, the Child Care Act 1980 and the 1955 Boarding Out Regulations, it is instructive to consider also the present regime. The latter does not alter the fundamental nature of fostering, but it does make explicit some things which were matters of practice in 10. The practice of placing children with either parents, or with connected persons, is in no sense new. It has existed for many years. As long ago as 1955, the Boarding Out of Children Regulations of that year recognised the practice in regulation 2 which (then) provided that only a husband and wife, or a sole woman, could Family placements in relation to children are not the same as family placements by the local authority. The children live in a family; a family life is not consistent with the kind of organisation which the enterprise test of vicarious liability contemplates. It might in theory be possible to distinguish parents on the basis that they do not have to be approved I agree with Stocker LJ that the court should be wary in its approach to holding parents in breach of a