Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a common medical condition which affects approximately 50% of the male population between the ages of 40 and 70. It is caused by a number of disorders, both physiological and psychological. The penis contains smooth muscle. When in its normal resting state, the smooth muscle contracts and so restricts the arteries supplying blood to the penis. When an erection is triggered, the The parties agreed that the notional skilled team, by reference to which the question of the obviousness of the patent in dispute would be assessed, would include a clinical pharmacologist with experience in pharmacokinetics and a clinician specialising in urology. Both were important and would work together. The primary task of the skilled team was and is to make safe, tolerable and effective medicines. The clinician would take the lead when assessing The 181 patent is a dosage patent. In particular it relates to a potent inhibitor of PDE5 that is useful for the treatment of sexual dysfunction. The relevant claims are as follows. Claim 1 asserts A pharmaceutical unit dosage composition comprising 1 to 5mg of a compound having [the illustrated structural formula of tadalafil] said unit dosage form suitable for oral administration up to a maximum total dose of 5mg per day. Lillys response was first that the discovery of the dosage regime was the result of expensive and unpredictable research which was entitled to patent protection. The fact that routine tests have uncertain results does not on its own turn those results into an invention. Similarly, the fact that, before the pre clinical, Phase I and Phase IIa tests had been performed, one cannot say what particular doses will be tested in a Phase IIb test in leading dosage dosage case that Tadalafil was obvious as a treatment for [ED]. Birss J then looked at the programme as a whole and assessed obviousness overall. In para 343 he summarised his reasons in these terms: i) In terms of motives to find a solution to the problem the patent addresses, the skilled team would be highly motivated by Daugan and the success of sildenafil Kitchin LJ's decision relates to claims 7 and 10. In relation to those claims, the debate in the Court of Appeal appears to have focussed on the notional skilled teams approach to the Phase II trial. He recognized that the skilled team would be faced with choices when embarking on Phase II studies, including how to proceed with the dose ranging studies and whether to study on demand or daily dosing. I am not persuaded that the law adopts the extreme position of either submission. Mr Waughs challenge to the judgment of the Court of Appeal can be boiled down to one central submission: the statutory question in section 3 of the 1977 Act is whether the claimed invention was obvious at the priority date. This straightforward approach to the assessment of obviousness, he submitted, required the court to look at the invention set out in 4. The inventor has the benefit during the term, and the public have the benefit after (quoted in Hulme, On the History of Patent Law (1902) 18 LQR 280, 285 and cited by Lord Sumption in the leading judgment in Generics (UK) Ltd (trading as Mylan) v Warner Lambert Co LLC [2018] UKSC 56; [2019] Bus LR 360, 4. While both avenues focus on the inventive concept put forward in the claims, neither approach should be applied in a mechanistic way. In addressing the statutory question of obviousness in section 3 of the 1977 Act it is common for English courts to adopt the so called Windsurfing/Pozzoli structure which asks these questions: Identify the notional person skilled in the art; Identify common general knowledge (1) 4. This appeal concerns a pharmaceutical patent claiming as an invention a dosage regime. Mr Waugh referred to the extrajudicial writing of Sir Hugh Laddie, Patents whats invention got to do with it? (in Intellectual property in the new millennium: essays in honour of William R Cornish (2004), p 91 et seq), in which he stated, at p 92: In this field it is apparent that, without patents, 20100219 the Enlarged Board of Appeal of the EPO decided known that, when it was already to use a medicament to treat a particular illness, it was possible to patent that it was obvious that the invention was obvious for another purpose. In decision Abbott Respiratory LLC/Dosage regime (G 0002/08) EP:BA:2010:G000208. The possibility that a dosage patent Finally, before addressing directly the question whether the Court of Appeal was entitled to reverse Birss Js finding of non obviousness, I remind myself of the limits of an appellate courts power to overturn the evaluation of a trial judge in this field. It must be satisfied that the trial judge was wrong: see, by way of analogy, In re B (A Child) (Care Proceedings Threshold Criteria) [2013 Case / GBA dBA: The Court of Appeal did not reverse any of Birss Js findings of primary fact. Both courts accepted that it was obvious for the skilled team to pursue the pre clinical and clinical research in order to implement Daugan. It was not in dispute that the target of that research was to identify the appropriate dosage regime for tadalafil in the treatment of ED. Mr Waugh also submits (a) that the Court of Appeal lost sight of the requirement that obviousness must be assessed by reference to the subject matter of the relevant claims a dose of tadalafil of between 1mg and 5mgs for oral administration up to a maximum total dose of 5mg per day for the treatment of sexual dysfunction and not a loose paraphrase of what the claim or the process by which the dose is discovered, The court heard submissions about the judgments of the courts of other countries which are signatories of the EPC on parallel revocation proceedings against the 181 patent. The claimants founded principally on the judgments in the Netherlands and Germany, in which in each case the national court revoked the patent on the ground of obviousness. We were also referred to judgments from other jurisdictions concerning the same patent, including Belgium and Portugal, which upheld the The balance or symmetry in patent law and the pre established or at least readily foreseeable target of the skilled teams tests hold the key to the resolution of this dispute. The first intervener represents the views of a wide range of UK industry on policy and practice in relation to intellectual property rights. The second and third interveners represent the interests of a range of manufacturers of generic drugs. The fourth intervener