The issue before us is whether Barclays Bank is vicariously liable for the sexual assaults allegedly committed between 1968 and about 1984 by the late Dr Gordon Bates on some 126 claimants in this group action. Dr Bates died in 2009 and his estate (worth over half a million pounds) has been distributed. He cannot be sued by the claimants but neither can the Bank claim contribution from him should any of these actions succeed. The law of vicarious liability is on the move. Historically, and leaving aside relationships such as agency and partnership, that was limited to the relationship between employer and employee, but that has now been somewhat broadened. So stated Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers in Various Claimants v Catholic Child Welfare Society [2012] UKSC 56; [2013] 2 AC 1, generally known as Christian Brothers, at para 19. The question raised by the current case, and by the parallel case of WM Morrison Supermarkets plc v Various Claims [2018] EWSC 12, is how far that move can take it. Two elements have to be shown before one person can be made vicar The recent expansion in the law of vicarious liability began with the House of Lords decision in Lister v Hesley Hall Ltd [2001] UKHL 22; [2002] 1 AC 215. Severe flood damage had been caused to a factory, where air conditioning was being installed, by the negligence of a fitters mate; the fitter and his mate had been supplied on a labour only basis by the third defendant to the second defendant to whom some of the work had been sub contracted; the Court of Appeal held both the second and third defendants jointly vicariously liable. This built upon the earlier decision in Viasystems (Tyneside) Ltd v Thermal Transfer (Northern) Ltd [2005] EWCA Civ 1151; [2006] QB 510. The first English case to consider directly whether the enquiry at stage one might expand beyond the relationship of employee and employer was Es case. In Es case, the claimant alleged that while living in a childrens home run by a Roman Catholic order of nuns she had been sexually abused by a priest appointed by the local di These are policy reasons, closely related to the policy reasons derived from the Canadian cases and Lister v Hesley Hall. True it is that the brothers entered into contracts of employment with the Middlesbrough defendants, but they did so because the provincial required them to do so. In para 35, Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers listed a number of policy reasons usually making it fair, just and reasonable to impose vicarious liability upon an employer for the torts committed by an employee in the course of his employment: the tort will have been committed as a result of activity the employees activity is likely to be part of the the employer is more likely to have the means to (i) compensate the victim than the employee and can be expected to have insured against that liability; (ii) being taken by the employee on behalf of the employer; (iii) the employer, by employing the employee to carry on the activity will have created the risk of the tort committed by the employees; (iv) been under the control of the employee. This passage was cited by Ward LJ in Es case, para 54, followed by this: My own view is that one cannot understand how the law relating to vicarious liable has developed nor how, if at all, it should develop without being Lord Reed went on to refer to Lord Phillips citation of the Cox case and the sufficiently akin to employment test (para 26) and to his application of that test to the facts of the Christian Brothers activities (Para 27). He emphasised that this new general approach was not special to cases of alleged sexual abuse in foster care, but that it could also be applied to work done for an employer as part of the business of that employer and work done by an independent contractor. He pointed out that they are not all of equal significance. In todays courts an employer is likely to be able to tell an employee what to do but not (at least always) how to do it. Factor (i), deep pockets, is not in itself a principled reason to impose liability, although the absence of any other source of compensation may sometimes be taken into account (parar 20). Factor (v), control, does not have the significance which once it did. In the Cox and Christian Brothers cases, carried some of the control exercised by the local authority over the foster parents care for the children was not enough to justify vicarious liability. But 2018Clearly, although Dr Bates was a part time employee of the health service, he was not at any time an employee of a Bank. Nor, viewed objectively, was he anything close to an employee. He was in business on his own account as a medical practitioner with a portfolio of patients and clients. One of those clients was the Bank. The Bank made the arrangements for the examinations and sent him the forms to fill in. It therefore chose the questions to which it wanted answers. He no doubt carried his own medical liability insurance, although this may not have covered him from liability for deliberate wrongdoing. But the same would be true of many other people who did work for the Bank but were clearly independent contractors, ranging from the company hired to clean its windows to the auditors hired to audit its books. These relationships, when whittled down to their essence; possess the same fundamental qualities as those which inhere in employer employee relationships, and thus