2001 The issue in the appeal is whether there was sufficient connection between the wrongdoers employment and his conduct towards the claimant to make the defendant legally responsible. It is a subject which has troubled the courts on numerous occasions and the case law is not entirely consistent. In addressing the issues which it raises, it will be necessary to examine how the law in this area has developed, what stage it has reached In this court the claimants primary argument was that the time has come for a new test of vicarious liability. In place of the close connection test the courts should apply a broader test of representative capacity. In the case of a tort committed by an employee, the decisive question should be whether a reasonable observer would consider the employee to be acting in the capacity of a representative of the employer at the time of committing 19 pp19 of the mediaeval cases of vicarious liability with the special reasons for each of them. He cited authorities in which the doctrine had been applied, for example, in cases of direct trespass to goods and false imprisonment, and he observed (at p 266): In all these cases it may be said, as it was said here, that the master has not authorized the act. It is true, In Petterson v Royal Oak Hotel Ltd [1948] NZLR 136 a barman refused to serve a drunken customer with more alcohol. As the customer was on his way out of the premises, he threw a glass at the barman which broke in pieces at his feet. The barman picked up a piece of the broken glass and threw it back at the departing customer, but missed him and injured the as in Lister v Hesley Hall Ltd [2002] 1 AC 215 Lord Millett commented, at para 80, that the better view may have been that the employer was not liable because it was no part of the duties of the pump attendant to keep order, but there is no suggestion in the report of the case that there was any other employee in practical charge of the forecourt and cash desk area. In In Lister the House of Lords was faced with the problem of the application of the doctrine of vicarious liability to the warden of a school boarding house who sexually abused the children in his care. The trial judge dismissed the boys abused claim against the employer on the ground that the employee was acting outside the scope of his employment and that the boy was a trespasser on the float, but his decision was reversed In the simplest terms, the court has to consider two matters. The first question is what functions or field of activities have been entrusted by the employer to the employee, or, in everyday language, what was the nature of his job. It is fair to allocate risk of losses thus arising to the businesses rather than leave those wronged with the sole remedy, of doubtful value, against the individual employee who committed the wrong. As Lord Toulson has explained, the test for holding an employer vicariously liable for the tort of his employee has troubled the courts for many years. The close connection test (whether the employees tort is so closely connected with his employment that it would be just to hold the employer liable) was first articulated in this jurisdiction by the House of Lords in Lister v Hesley Hall Ltd [2002] 1 2. As regards the facts of the present case, I agree with the analysis of Lord Toulson and the reasons he gives at paras 47 and 48 for