The child at the centre of this appeal is a girl, who was born in England in April 2008 and so is now aged seven. The appellant, who continues to live in England, is a British national, aged 35, of Indian ethnicity. The respondent is the biological mother of B and her father is an unknown sperm donor of Asian ethnicity. Other than biologically, B is the product of their relationship. The b) ( B) and she had drawn hearts and kisses. The appellant has never been Bs legal parent. Had the insemination which led to Bs conception occurred after 6 April 2009, and had the respondent so agreed in writing, the appellant would have been treated in law as Bs parent: sections 43 and 44 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008. Had she thereupon been registered as Moylan J addressed the issue of jurisdiction. It was, as she noted, common ground that prior to 3 February 2014 the respondent and B had been habitually resident in England. There may well be grounds for criticising the appellant for having invited the court to order that the substituted service should be at the parents address as opposed, for example, at the address of one of the respondents sisters. At all events the service led The consequence of the conclusions reached in the lower courts, in both of them by judges of great experience in the field of family law, is that applications intended to secure for B a continuing relationship with the woman who, with the respondents consent, has acted as one of her parents and who, even for the two years following the separation, managed to maintain a significant, loving presence in her life have been dismissed without any The concept of a habitual residence in a country is one of fact. Its traditional interpretation in England and Wales has been substantially influenced by the stance adopted by one or both of the parents, often at the expense of focus on the childs own situation. Indeed, in his article entitled The Concept of Habitual Residence in the Juridical Review 1997, p 137, Dr Clive, the great Scottish family law jurist, wrote at p 1. Recital 12 to Regulation B2R states: The grounds of jurisdiction in matters of parental responsibility established in the present Regulation are shaped in the light of the best interests of the child, in particular on the criterion of proximity. By proximity, the court clearly meant the practical connection between the child and the country concerned: Lord Hughes in A v A, cited above, at para 80(ii). In its It follows that, in asking whether Bs wish to remain in touch with the appellant was enough to sustain a continuation of her habitual residence in England on 13 February 2014, Hogg J should now be seen to have asked herself far too narrow a question. One of the well judged submissions of Mr Tyler QC on behalf of the respondent is that, were it minded to remove There is accordingly no need to consider whether, on the footing that she had no jurisdiction to determine the appellants application under the 1989 Act, Hogg J was entitled to decline to exercise her inherent jurisdiction to make B, as a British subject, a ward of court and to order (or even to consider why to order) the respondent to return her, at any rate on a temporary basis, to England. In A v A, cited above, this court held that the prohibition comprised in sections 1(1 We agree fully with Lord Wilsons reasoning and conclusion on the issue of habitual residence. The Court of Appeal devoted a large proportion of their judgment to this aspect of the case. Their approach is summed up in para 45: Various words have been used down the years to describe the kind of circumstances in which it may be appropriate to make an order only under extraordinary circumstances, the rarest possible thing, very unusual, really exceptional, IntroductionI regret that I am unable to agree with the opinion of the majority. The judge directed herself in accordance with all the relevant authorities. She heard the evidence of both ladies in addition to reviewing a substantial volume of other material. The reason, in summary, is that while the test for what constitutes habitual residence is a question of law, whether it is satisfied is a matter of fact. I remain uncertain whether this is The generalisation to present rule before habitually resident is that a child who has been permanently removed from a country cannot become habitual residence. This is simply an inescapable consequence of the concept of a habitual residence in a case where a child migrates from a familiar to an unfamiliar place. Of course this does mean that there may be a period during which the child, although resident in a particular country is The Court of Appeal, in the case of child and child was not in breach of rights of any persons rights of custody. There was no agreement agreement was no child was no habitual residence. There is no agreement that the childs habitual residence has been acquired. The Council Regulation assumes that it will normally have been acquired in three months: see article 11(7); and in A v A Baroness Hale declined to assume that it could not be The inherent jurisdiction of the High Court with respect to children originated in an age where the civil courts had no statutory family jurisdiction. It is based on the concept of a quasi parental relationship between the sovereign and a child of British nationality. It enables the courts to make a British child a ward of court, even if the child is outside the jurisdiction when the order is made. The continued existence of an inherent jurisdiction in For B is held that she has no job, is estranged from her family and has no desire to reside. It is necessary to make this point in order to remind ourselves that it is to protect her relationship with the child on the basis that she should be regarded as a co parent that the appellant is invoking the inherent jurisdiction of the court. The courts below have held that there are no such grounds, and we have no In particular, after setting out her conclusions of fact at paras 26 to 28, Hogg J was in my opinion entitled to hold (as she did at para 29) that, when the mother lost her habitual residence on leaving the United Kingdom, so did B. Black LJ then set out her para 29,