The claims for compound interest are made on two bases. First, it is argued that HMRC are under a liability to make restitution on the basis that they were unjustly enriched by payments made under a mistake of law, applying the principle established in Kleinwort Benson Ltd v Lincoln County Council [1999] 2 AC 349 and Deutsche Morgan Grenfell Group plc v Inland Revenue Comrs [2006] The Court of Justice (Grand Chamber) (CJEU or the court) examined the questions together, and reformulated them as asking in essence, whether, in a situation such as that at issue in the cases in the main proceedings, in which an amount of VAT overpaid by reason of non compliance with EU law has been repaid to the taxpayer concerned, it is in accordance with the payment of only simple interest on that sum, or whether EU law requires (1B) Where a person has for a prescribed accounting period (whenever ended) paid to the Commissioners an amount by way of VAT that was not VAT due to them, otherwise than as a result of (a) brought into account as output tax, or (b) an amount of input tax allowable under section an amount which was not output tax due to the taxpayer, the Commissioners shall be liable to repay to that person the amount so paid. As originally enacted, section 78(11) provided for a limitation period of six years running from the date on which the claimant discovered HMRCs error or could with reasonable diligence have discovered it. Like the corresponding provision in section 80, it was amended by the Finance Act 1997 so as to impose a three year period, with retrospective effect, and with no transitional provisions. As the court stated: Parliament cannot sensibly be taken to have intended, when The Court of Appeal rejected Littlewoods argument that the critical words in section 78(1) concern liabilities to pay interest. It is notable in the first place that the scheme established by section 78 applies in circumstances falling within paragraphs (a) to (d) of subsection (1). Although section 78, is not confined to circumstances in which a repayment is due under section 80, such circumstances fall within its scope. The present case falls under paragraph (a), Against that background, the statutory scheme established by section 78 was more generous than the common law, as then understood. So far as restitutionary claims were concerned, it had been held that in an action for money had and received only the net sum could be recovered: Johnson v The King [1904] AC 817, applying London, Chatham and Dover Railway Co v South Eastern Railway Co. [1893] AC 429. Under the 25. In order to understand the debate in this appeal and the reasons for our conclusions, it is useful to summarise the relevant parts of Henderson Js impressive judgment. Henderson J upheld Littlewoods submission essentially because he interpreted the reference to an adequate indemnity in para 29 of the CJEUs judgment as a right to reimbursement of the losses representing the time value of unlawfully levied tax which the member state retained. Those losses resulted from the unavailability The Court of Appeal, like the judge, considered that it was logically necessary to identify the content of the right to interest, which the CJEU had recognised in this case, before answering the question whether the UKs rules in section 78 of VATA gave effect to the right in accordance with the principle of effectiveness. The Court focussed on para 25 of the CJEUs judgment, treating the word reimbursement as very EU the CJEU sets out the prior case law which established the right to a refund of charges levied by a member state in breach of EU law, and the extension of that right by Metallgesellschaft (above) and Test Claimants in the FII Group Litigation v Inland Revenue Comrs (Case C 446/04) (Note) [2012] 2 AC 436 to include other amounts retained by the member state, including compensation for the 3. Thirdly, we see no inconsistency between our interpretation of the CJEUs judgment in this case and its prior and subsequent case law. The obligation in principle on a member state to repay charges levied in breach of EU law, which is enshrined in cases such as San Giorgio and Socit Comateb v Directeur Gnral des Douanes et Droits Indirects (Joined Cases C 192/95 to C 218/95 19 The CJEU in paras 65 and 66 repeated the reasoning in paras 25 and 26 in the judgment in this case and concluded (para 69) that individuals who were entitled to reimbursement of sums paid as production levies under invalid EU legislation were also entitled to interest on those sums. The member state was obliged to pay interest even though it could not recover the corresponding interest from the EU institution to which it had paid the invalid lev In our view, there is no requirement in the CJEUs jurisprudence that the value which the member state, by the award of interest, places on the use of money should make good in full the loss which a taxpayer has suffered by being kept out of his