Transport for London (TfL), which became the highway authority for those public highways in London designated as GLA roads, in the GLA Roads Designation Order 2000 (SI 2000/1117) (the Designation order). Previously those highways had been the responsibility of individual London borough councils as local highway authorities including, for their respective areas, the respondents London Borough of Southwark and the City of London Corporation (the Councils). As its name implies, the Transfer Order provided for the transfer from local highway authority to TfL of specified property and liabilities relating to highways designated as Gla roads by the Designation. This appeal raises an interesting but complicated question as to the meaning It was left to statute, therefore, to create an interest in land which was to be held by the body on whom the duty to repair had fallen. Parliament began this task, in a rudimentary way, in section 149 private property rights without compensation to be vested in the body responsible for the repair of a highway, and continued it in section 68 of the Public Health Act 1848, section 96 of the Metropolis Management Act 1855 and section 149 of the Portfolio of Public Works Act 1858. They all provided for a form of automatic vesting of a property interest in the land over which the highway ran in favour of the body capable for its maintenance and repair. But a series of 19th century The Baird principle applies to the transfer of property and liabilities in connection with the designation of a highway as a trunk road, and the revocation of any such designation. Prior to 1929 there was no specific statutory provision for this purpose. In Finchley Electric Light Co Ltd v Finchley Urban District Council [1903] 1 Ch 437 the question was whether the defendant as local highway authority could restrain the running of a power cable by the plaintiff at a height of 34 feet above Regents Park Road in London. The council had acquired property rights in relation to the road by automatic vesting under section 149 of the Public Health Act 1875 (a direct statutory predecessor of what It will be immediately apparent that there are significant linguistic similarities and differences between section 7 of the 1936 Act and section 228 of the 1959 Act. What was previously called the road is now called the highway. The phrase and the highway and other properties so transferred shall by virtue of this section vest in the Minister has been removed. Rather, the condition relating to the highway itself is that it is transferred in so far as, immediately before the said date, it was vested in the former highway authority. There is also, in section 228(6), a provision for reverse transfer where a trunk road ceases to be an trunk road but it is not suggested that this significantly affects the present dispute. As already noted, article 2 of the Transfer Order takes as its model the provisions of section 265, again with no amendment which has any consequence in relation to the amending The Court of Appeal in its decision in the Councils v TfL case held that article 2(1)(a) transfers as the highway only the zone of ordinary use. On appeal, Mann J recorded a more significant concession made by Mr Morshead QC on behalf of Tl, namely that its claim related to land acquired for or appropriated to highway purposes: see para 56 of his judgment. The question really boils down to this: does the Baird principle apply to article 2? I do not regard article 2 or, for that matter, section 265. My reasons follow. The purpose of the Transfer Order, like the purpose of all provisions for statutory vesting of property in highway authorities, was As already explained, section 7 of the Trunk Roads Act 1936 is the original progenitor of what is now section 265, having been significantly re worded in 1959 as section 228 of the Highways Act 1959, without any apparent intention thereby to effect any change of substance in its meaning. It is tempting but, in my view, wrong to assume that, where sections 263 and 265 both refer to highway as a label for real property rights which are to be vested in a highway authority, the word highway must therefore have precisely the same meaning in both sections. This is not merely because the word appears as part of two quite differently worded provisions. Rather, it is because, although now lying almost side by side The Court of Appeal was significantly influenced in its reasoning by a perception of the difficulties which might flow from TfLs interpretation of article 2, in conjunction with section 266A of the Highways Act 1980. Mr Elvin QC for the respondent Councils pressed the same point upon us in his own excellent and succinct submissions. Section 14B of the 1980 Act empowers the Mayor of London to direct that a highway or proposed highway shall become or cease to be a GLA road. Section 266A provides for transfer of property and liabilities upon such an event. It contains provisions which broadly reflect article 2(1)(b) and (3) of the Transfer Order, for the transfer of A final reason why the Court of Appeal was persuaded that transfers under article 2 should be subject to the Baird principle of necessity was that, otherwise, the residents and ratepayers of the respondent Councils would be deprived, without compensation, of more property than was necessary to fulfil the purpose of constituting TfL as the relevant highway authority. Burden of ProofWhile acknowledging that article 2(1)(a) of the Transfer Order might best be interpreted as subject