[2013] 1 WLR 1319. If a criminal who previously had leave to remain in this country is United Kingdom is liable to deportation because of his offences, but cannot actually be deported because to remove him would infringe his rights under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, with the result that the deportation order is revoked, what is the status of his previous leave? It is common ground that the making of a deportation order renders his leave to remains invalid. His case, however, is that his original indefinite leave to be has revived when the departure order was revoked. This court was told that since that expired it has been replaced with a grant of three years discretionary leave. It appears that the Secretary of State is treating him as she treats a number of other immigrants, and is implementing what may turn out to be a pattern of successive grants of discretionary leave to leave and which may result, if all goes well, in that leave becoming indefinite, but not until something of the order of 10 years have passed. The question in For Mr George, the carefully crafted submissions of Mr Knafler QC that his indefinite leave to remain revived when the deportation order was revoked can conveniently be considered under 2 headings: (a) it is said that as a matter of construction, section 5(1) and (2) of the 1971 Act mean that upon revocation the position reverts to the status quo ante, viz the indefinite leave revives; it is also said that the position is made clear by considering other statutes (b) in pari materia, in particular section 76 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (the 2002 Act), section 10 of the Immigration and asylum Act 1999 (the 1999 Act), and the automatic deportation provisions of the 2007 Act (paragraph 7 above). If a person is under section 3(5)(a) or (6) above liable to deportation, then subject to the following provisions of this Act the Secretary of State may make a deportation order against him, that is to say an order requiring him to leave and prohibiting him from entering the United Kingdom; and a deported order against a person shall invalidate any leave the order is made or while it is in force. The effect of this section is that (i) a non British Mr Knaflers second submission, and in particular the terms of section 76 of the 2002 Act, which is the section which persuaded the majority of the Court of Appeal that he was right. Section 76 gave the Secretary of State a new power to revoke a persons indefinite leave to remain, in three defined situations: (1) where a person is liable to deportation but cannot be deported for legal reasons, (2) where leave was obtained by deception such as would make the person liable to removal, but he cannot be removed for legal or practical reasons and (3) where he had, in specified circumstances, ceased to be the refugee which he previously had been. The body of evidence of this is considerable. It includes the following. (i) Draft Immigration Rules were prepared contemporaneously with the passage through Parliament of the 1971 Act (Immigration Rules: Control after Entry (Cmnd 4610) as amended by Cmnd 4792); these were considered by both Houses prior to the completion of the Acts legislative progress; the draft rules included paragraph 58 which stated in terms: Revocation of the deportation order does A second reason for rejecting the argument based upon section 76, perhaps not fully ventilated before the Court of Appeal, lies in the history set out at paragraph 12 above. At that time the 2000 Order had not seen the light of day and there could be no question of applying article 13(7). The law was, under section 3(4) of the same 1971 Act, that: A person's leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom shall lapse on his going to a country or territory outside the common travel area (whether or not he lands there), unless within the period for which he had leave he returns to the same place, or, if he does so return, his previous leave (and any limitation on it or conditions attached to it) shall continue to apply. This provision cannot be read, in the context of the 1971 Act where it appears, as applying to a person deported under section 5. If it did, there would be no need for section 5(1) to make any provision at all for the deportation order to invalidate the leave to remain. Nor, even if the effect of section 5,2) Section 10 gives the Secretary of State power to direct summary removal of specific categories of people where, essentially, their leave to remain is seriously flawed. The two principal categories are those who have failed to observe a condition of their leave (who accordingly are outside the leave granted) and those who obtained it by deception. The appeal rights of those affected by section 10 summary removal directions and those facing deportation are quite different. Section 10 of the 1999 Act was amended by section 35 of the 2007 Act. The effect of section 10(8) (as substituted by section 48 of the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006), is to invalidate the leave. The argument runs as follows. (A) In a non automatic case an appeal against a decision (under section 3(5) of the 1971 Act) that a persons deportation is conducive to the public good, and thus that a deportation order will follow, is appealable under section 82(2)(j) of that Act and whilst the appeal is pending no deportation order can be made: see section 79(1) and (2) of this Act; see section 80(1)(b) of Mr George is a person whose presence in the United Kingdom is judged not to be conducive to the public good. His status as a person liable to deportation has long since been established; his appeal challenging it failed long ago. If it turns out that there is a legal obstacle to actual removal, for example because of Convention rights which cannot be infringed, that does not alter the fact that he is liable to be deported. Moreover, the legal obstacle is not necessarily, or even usually, permanent. If someone in his position cannot at present be deported because to do so would infringe his article 8