This is an interim judgment dealing with certain threshold issues on this appeal. It is final as to the issues covered, but interim in the sense that other issues will have to be decided before the appeal can be finally determined. The court regrets the delay in reaching a final disposal of this protracted and deeply troubling case. However, as will be explained, it has become apparent that some critical and difficult issues had not been clearly identified in the agreed statement of facts and issues, nor adequately covered by the written or oral submissions. In fairness to the Britain occupied Cyprus between 1878 and 1960. It had been governed for three centuries as part of the Ottoman Empire. After the defeat of Turkey in the Russo Turkish war of 1877 8, Britain entered into a military alliance with Turkey under which she undertook to defend Turkey by force of arms against any future Russian attack. In return, Turkey, while retaining sovereignty over the island, ceded it to be occupied and administered by Britain in order to enable England to make necessary provision for executing her engagement: article 1 of the Cyprus Convention, 4 June 1878 In 1963 the Republic of Cyprus notified the Secretary General that it had succeeded to the Convention. In 1968 it acceded to the Protocol. On the same date (16 August 1960), the Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia Order in Council 1960 (SI 1960/1369) came into force. It made arrangements for the administration of the SBAs by an Administrator, who was to be a serving officer of HM Forces and is in practice the Commander of British Forces Cyprus. The Administrator was to have extensive executive and legislative powers. The British note transmitted 11. The United Kingdom, [SBA] Administration, will endeavour to resettle persons recognised as refugees in countries willing to accept those persons, not later than one year after the decision granting the relevant status has been taken. The joint consultative body established in paragraph 16 of this Memorandum will regularly review the progress made with this programme. 12. Subject to paragraph 13, during their stay on the island of Cyprus persons recognised by the authorities of the Republic of Cyprus as refugees or granted any other the through form of international protection under the procedures determined in paragraph 13 of the Faced with the political objections to resettlement in the UK, the governments strategy in 2002, agreed apparently at Cabinet level, seems to have been to use the desire of Cyprus to become a member of the EU as leverage to secure an acceptable agreement on the treatment of all the refugees and other asylum seekers, existing and future (HC 99 101). Early drafts included provision for those already granted refugee status in the SBAs. Accordingly, the final form of the agreement was prospective, applying only to future arrivals. However, the Republic was adamant that existing asylum seekers Mr Gondelle (HC 120 121). He spoke of a meeting on 28 January 2005 at Richmond Village with the UNHCR and the SBAA Fiscal Officer Mr Jim Smart. In response to questions why they had to make new applications when they had already been recognized as refugees, they were told of assurances that the Republic would recognise us and give us rights; but that they would need to reside in the Republic for a further seven years to be able to apply for citizenship, and that the years spent living in the SBAs would not count. Mr Smart told them In the course of those proceedings the respondents solicitor had written to the Republics Ministry for Foreign Affairs asking about the agreement to resettle the refugees, on which the SBA authorities were relying. The reply dated 18 June 2010 stated (as translated from the Greek): there is no written agreement with the United Kingdom as regards case of your customers. But the original applicants remain the responsibility of the SBAA. The Republic of Cyprus had merely accepted to implement commensurately the relevant Memorandum of Understanding between the Bank of Cyprus and the United The respondents application came before Foskett J in March 2016. He gave judgment on 28 April 2016. The UKs policy on the admission of refugees is in accordance with the 1951 Refugee Convention and the UK accepts no responsibility for the consideration of applications for asylum or transfer of refugee status other than those made on UK territory, namely the mainland territory of the UK and excluding the UKs Overseas Territories, Crown Dependencies, or Sovereign Bases such as the ones in the Republic of Cyprus. The present proceedings were brought by way of On 16 June 2017, after the decision of the Court of Appeal, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees wrote to the Secretary of State asking her to reconsider her decision not to admit the respondents to the United Kingdom. In his letter, the High Commissioner raised doubts about the practical feasibility of supporting them through facilities provided by the Republic of Cyprus, after 19 years and in the absence of any formal agreement or assurances regarding their future in the Republic. Foskett J in terms left that matter to be determined in a new decision, in which the secretary of The Secretary of State has indicated present that the Republic of Cyprus is committed to its 2005 agreement and stands by its decision in 2005 (documents in letters to you) to recognise you as refugees and grant you the rights to which you are entitled as a refugee in the Republic. The Sovereign Base Areas Administration (SBAA) is actively engaged, in cooperation with the Republics Asylum Service and its Labour Office, in efforts to assist you to access the help which this agreement clearly makes available to you. This was acknowledged by Chrystalla Katsapaou of UNHCR Cyprus at a recent 10 A question a question state law which entered it into International state obligations for those within its scope? In particular: a) Was the United Kingdom in principle entitled to fulfil its obligations under the Convention by arranging for support to be provided by the Republic of Cyprus? b) If so, were the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding (including the 2003 Refugee Ordinance) a proper basis on which to do so? c) If the answer to (b) is no, what are the consequences, in terms of rights or remedies We have been invited to overrule this decision. It is said to be inconsistent with ordinary principles of international law whereby (i) international obligations are owed in respect of specific territory, and (ii) a states international responsibility is unaffected by changes to the governance or constitutional status of some part of its territory. The proposition is stated as follows in article 3 of the International Law Commissions Articles of Responsibility of States for Internationally Wrongful Acts (2001): The characterisation of an act of State as internationally wrongful is governed by international law. Such characterisation is not affected by (i) Does the Refugee Convention apply to the metropolitan territory of that State or to any other dependent territory of the same state to which the Convention has been extended? The territorial application of a treaty is a question of international, not domestic law. It depends, like most aspects of the law of treaties, on the intention of the contracting states. Article 29 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties (1969) provides that: unless a different intention appears from the treaty or is otherwise subject to the provisions of the Convention or the Protocol and movement within the same territory. Article 4 provides that The Contracting States shall accord to refugees within their territories treatment at least as favourable as that accorded to their nationals with respect to freedom to practice their religion . The plural is used here because the article is dealing with all Contracting Nations territories. Where there are differences in the freedom to practise religion in different territories for the international relations of which a single State is responsible, the article will only work if applied on a territory by territory basis. A similar point applies to other articles requiring (iii) Was the Memorandum of Understanding of 2003 a valid performance those within its Convention obligations in the United Kingdom. It reads: LIBERAL PROFESSIONS 1. Each Contracting State shall accord to refugees lawfully staying in their territory who hold diplomas recognized by the competent authorities of that State, and who are desirous of practicing a liberal profession, treatment as favourable as possible and, in any event, not less favourable than that accorded to aliens generally in the same circumstances. 2. The Contracting States shall use their best 9. The practical implications of the interdependence of the SBAs and the Republic of Cyprus are explained by Lisa Young, Policy Secretary of the SBA Administration, in her witness statement dated 15 January 2016: 10. [T]he border is marked with inconspicuous pillars 11. The declarations made on 18 August 1960 provide that the laws and duties are as far as possible the same as the laws of the Republic and in practice this is largely the case. The SBAA is a very small administration and the SBA have limited resources because of their limited military purpose. The We further refer to paragraph 13 in support of the proposition that an evolutive interpretation of the treaty that would be effective in terms of its object and purpose, will be preferred to a strict application of the intertemporal rule: para 80. In view of the above, and subject to issues about the precise interpretation of certain articles, the court finds it hard to see any objection in principle to some or even most or all of the supporting facilities required for refugees being provided by co operative and effective arrangements with the Republic. It also referred to the principle of effectiveness in Case above respondents, the court would invite submissions from both sides as to the significance of that in the context of the issues in this case, and as to any proposals which there may be to address it. However Mr Husains point is more fundamental. It appears potentially relevant to the legality of the approach adopted by the UK in 2005 and thereafter. The respondents argument that the provision of support through the Republic of Cyprus amounts to an expulsion was rejected by both Foskett J (paras 341 342) and the Court of (v) What are the obligations of the United Kingdom under the Refugee Convention, and how should the court give effect to them in its order? The Refugee Convention creates obligations in international law. The Convention is not part of the domestic law of the UK except