This appeal is about the form of the Court of Appeals disposal of the matter. The appellant brought a claim for judicial review of a decision of the respondent, on 21 February 2012, to approve a Revenue Budget for 2012/13 in relation to the provision of youth services. In his claim form he applied for declarations that the respondent had failed to comply with section 149 of the Equality Act 2010 and section 507B of the Education Act 1996 and for an order quashing the decision to approve the budget. The claim was dismissed at first instance (Wyn Williams J) and the appellant was ordered to pay the respondents costs, subject to a proviso against enforcement of the order without further permission of the court. He obtained limited permission to appeal on two grounds. The Court of Appeal (Moore Bick, Rimer and Underhill LJJ) decided the two substantive issues in his favour but did not grant him any relief, dismissed his appeal and ordered him to pay half of the defendants costs of the appeal. The underlying facts and issues are set out in the very thorough judgment of Wyn Williams J, [2012] EWHC 1928 (Admin), and recapitulated, so far as was necessary, in the judgment of the Church of Appeal delivered by Rimer LJ, [2013] EWCA Civ 1320. For present purposes a briefer outline will be sufficient. Section 149 of 2010 Act provided that the public sector equality duty (PSED) contained in the 2010 Act. The section required the respondent to have due regard to the statutory equality needs in the exercise of its functions. The appellants disability was also a protected characteristic which brought into the meaning of section 50E of the 1996 Act, which required the Respondent to secure access for him to sufficient educational and recreational leisure time activities for the improvement 4. Delivering the reasons for the courts judgment on costs, ([2013] EWCA Civ 1483) Rimer LJ said that by the time that the appeal came on for hearing, it was far too late to consider granting any relief (by which he must have had in mind a quashing order), even if as to which the court had doubts it might have been appropriate for relief to be granted a year earlier when the matter was before Wyn Williams J. He continued: 5. No mention was made in the judgment about whether the order should include a declaration to reflect what was said in it about the respondents failure to discharge its statutory obligations, no doubt because the subject had never been raised on behalf of the appellant and in any event it would be open to counsel to make suggestions as to the appropriate form of order in the light of the matters determined in the judgement. The judgment of the Court of Appeal itself ruled that the respondent acted unlawfully, and the authority of the judgment would be no greater or less by making or not making a declaration in the form of the order to the same effect. That said, there is no must about making a declaratory order, and if a party who has the benefit of experienced legal representation does not want to make or suggest it. To do so would be detrimental to good administration. However, in circumstances where a public body has acted unlawfully but where it is not appropriate to make a mandatory, prohibitory or quashing Order, it will usually be appropriate for the court to make an order to reflect the courts finding. In some cases it may be sufficient to make no order except as to costs; but simply to dismiss the claim when there has been a finding of illegality is likely to convey a misleading impression and to leave the 1. Having succeeded in reversing the costs orders made by the courts below, the appellant is entitled to his reasonable costs of so doing. The issues raised by the appellant at first instance were considerably wider than the issues on which he was given permission to appeal. They included, for example, a far reaching challenge to the adequacy of the respondents EIAs. This challenge required detailed rebuttal by the respondent. The appellant also persisted in seeking an order to quash the decision approving the budget when that was unrealistic. However, a significant proportion of his written and oral argument before this court was directed to the question of a declaration. On that issue his argument had no merit when examined against the way that his case was presented in the lower courts, which only emerged fully from the submissions of the respondent and the fact that the appellant had not been able to raise any of the substantive issues that he had raised in the Court of Appeal in the first instance. The respondent was successful only in the limited sense that the findings of failure came too late to do anything about