This appeal concerns the lawfulness of a proposal by the Lord Chancellor (then The Rt Hon Christopher Grayling MP) in September 2013 to introduce a residence test for civil legal aid by amending Schedule 1 to the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 (LASPO), by means of delegated legislation, in the form of a statutory instrument, which I will refer to as the draft order. Part 1 of LASPOIn November 2010, the Ministry of Justice published a consultation paper entitled Proposals for the Reform of Legal Aid in England and Wales. Following the subsequent public consultation exercise, the Government Response in June 2011. The proposals in this June 2011 paper were then largely reflected in a Bill which was put before Parliament, and which, subject to amendments, was enacted as LASOPA, a statute which was enacted on 1 May 2012. This case is concerned with Part 1, which came into force on 1 April 2013, and contains 43 sections. As its title In April 2013, the Ministry of Justice issued a paper, Transforming Legal Aid, and subsequently carried out a public consultation exercise in connection with its proposals. In para 6.3 of an Equality Statement attached to that paper, the ministry described the primary objective of the proposal as being to bear down on the cost of legal aid, ensuring that every aspect of expenditure is justified and that we are getting the best deal for the taxpayer, and further stated that the reforms seek to promote public confidence in the system by ensuring limited public resources are targeted at those cases which justify it and those people who need it. The Ministry later agreed to exclude certain classes of case from the ambit of this proposal, namely categories of case which broadly relate to an individuals liberty, where the individual is particularly vulnerable, or where the case relates to the protection of children. Part 2 of Schedule 1 is entitled Excluded services, and it is introduced with the following words, The services described in Part 1 of this Schedule do not include the services listed in this Part of The draft order, once formally made, would, of course, be secondary, or subordinate, legislation, unlike LASPO itself which, as a statute, is primary legislation. Primary legislation is initiated by a Bill which is placed before Parliament. To the extent that Parliament considers it appropriate, all or any of the provisions of a Bill can be subject to detailed scrutiny, discussion, and amendment in Parliament before being formally enacted as primary legislation; it is then formally approved by the monarch, whereupon it becomes a statute. Subordinate legislation consists of legislation made by members of the Executive (often, as in this case, by Government ministers), almost always pursuant to an authority given by Parliament in secondary legislation. The draft order in the present case would be a statutory instrument, which is a type of subordinate legislation which must be laid in draft before Parliament before it can become law. Some statutory instruments are subject to the negative resolution procedure ie they will become law unless, within a specified period, they are debated and voted down. Other section 9(2)(b) of LASPO. Is the draft order ultra vires the powers granted to the Lord Chancellor is, in essence, as follows. The exclusion of a specific group of people from the right to receive civil legal services in relation to an issue, on the ground of personal circumstances or characteristics (namely those not lawfully resident in the UK, Crown Dependencies or British Overseas Territories) which have nothing to do with the nature of the issue or services involved or the individuals need, or ability to pay, for the services, is simply not within the scope of the power accorded to the lord Chancellor. In my view, that argument is sound, and should be accepted. The point is well demonstrated by the fact that, as mentioned in para 10 above, all the existing 18 paragraphs of Part 2 of the Schedule are concerned with Civil legal services provided in England and Wales, and all the 18 paragraphs in Part 1 of Schedule 1, which have been added to Part 2, which are not included in Part 2 and which have not been included in the Schedule, are not concerned with any civil legal Accordingly, in agreement with the Divisional Court, I have reached the conclusion that the appeal should be allowed on the first, ultra vires, issue. It was conceded on behalf of the Lord Chancellor that he could not have made the draft order under section 11. Given that that section is concerned with prescribing the characteristics and circumstances of those who should be able to qualify for civil legal services, it seems to me that that concession tends of itself to provide additional support for PLPs contention that the Lord chancellor cannot make such an order under part 1 of LASPO. The Court of Appeal concluded that section 41, and in particular section 41(2)(b), could be invoked to defeat this contention. In my view, in relation to his powers under section 9