The council appeals against the decision that it is liable to pay compensation under section 106 of the Building Act 1984, for loss to a business on Hastings Pier arising from its closure during 2006 under the councils emergency powers. The respondent (Manolete) pursued the claim as assignee of Stylus Sports Ltd (Stylus), which owned and operated the business at the relevant time, but went into liquidation in late 2011. The default on which the council relies includes alleged breaches (actual or prospective) of the duties imposed by the Occupiers Liability Act 1957 and the Health and Safety at buildings Act 1974. In short the former (by section 6 of the Act) imposes on the owner or occupiers of premises is a duty to see the safety of the building or structure, Hastings Pier is a pier in the town centre of Hastings, England. In recent years the freehold of the pier was owned by Ravenclaw Investments Incorporated (Ravenclaw), a company registered in Panama, and managed on their behalf by Boss Management UK Ltd (Boss). Stylus occupied two units, C2 and C15, close to the entrance to the pier at the northern (town) end. The units were held respectively under leases from Ravenclaw dated 14 August 2001 and 10 October 2001. The premises as so leased were confined generally to the internal non structural walls, and internal surfaces, and specifically excluded any main structural parts of the premises or of the building (Schedule 1). Ravenclaw as landlord was responsible for repair and when necessary renewal of the structure including the Stylus was the owner of the Pier. On 8 November 2006 Stylus had notified the council of its intention to claim compensation under section 106(1) of the 1984 Act, for losses allegedly suffered as a result of the closure of the pier between 16 June and 12 September 2006. It also instituted proceedings against Ravenclaw to require them to carry out the works of repair under the lease, and obtained summary judgment, but that was not complied with by Ravenclaw. In May 2007 Stylis began itself to carryout the necessary remedial works under its own premises. Those having been completed, the magistrates court on 4 July 2007 varied its order so as to permit public access to its premises. The council was not in a position to enforce the order, and on the same day St In this court Mr Gasztowicz QC for the council submits that the courts were wrong to treat the word default as confined to default under the 1984 Act. That is supported both by ordinary meaning of the word and by the legislative history. Although the primary responsibility for repair lay with the freeholders, Stylus had the ability to carry them out in default (Granada Theatres Ltd v Freehold Investment (Leytonstone) Ltd [1959] 1 Ch 592, 608), as indeed it did following the court order. The authorities referred to by the judge and the Court of Appeal do not lead to a different conclusion. For Manolete, Mr Bowdery QC (who did not appear below) supports the view of the courts below on the interpretation of the Mr Gasztowicz is entitled to succeed on the basis that he was nonetheless in default for the purpose of section 308, so that his claim for compensation failed. That conclusion makes it strictly unnecessary to address the view of the courts below that default in section 106 referred only to default under the 1984 Act itself. There seem to have been four main points leading to this conclusion: (i) the legislative history, (ii) other references to default in the Corp relies also under that Act, (iii) the wide scope of the factual inquiry implicit in the alternative approach, and (iv) various authorities under the predecessor statutes. None of these considerations in my view supports the conclusion. The first three points can be dealt with shortly. As to the authorities, the only one referred to by the Court of par emergency to the claim for compensation, not because the authority had no defence in principle to itas they held. They were right in my view to hold that statutory account Lpar action was limited to default under the 1984 Act. Clayton v Sale Urban District Council [1926] 1 KB 415 concerned action by the authority in respect of an alleged statutory nuisance caused by flooding. Under section 94 of the 1875 Act they could serve an abatement notice on the person by whose act default or sufferance the nuisance had arisen. It was argued that there could not be default by the owner within the meaning of the section unless there had been a breach of an obligation arising independently of the Section from an agreement or otherwise, and that he was not under any agreement or covenant or otherwise to construct or