When making the reference, this court determined to make a declaration of the breach of article 13, notwithstanding its admission by the Government. The legal and factual background is set out in the judgment of this court dated 1 May 2013 [2013] UKSC 25, and need not be repeated. For the reasons given in that judgment, the court referred certain questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). That court has now answered those questions in a judgment dated 1. Article 22(1) of Directive 2008/50/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 on ambient air quality and cleaner air for Europe must be interpreted as meaning that, in order to be able to postpone by a maximum of five years the deadline specified by the Directive for achieving conformity with the limit values for nitrogen dioxide specified in annex XI thereto, a member state is required to make an application for postponement and to establish an air quality plan when it is objectively apparent, having regard to existing data, and notwithstanding the implementation by that member state of appropriate In answer to the first two questions, the Commission expressed the view that the article 22 procedure was not mandatory, but was foreseen as an optional derogation for member states to obligations that already existed (para 48). The consequence was that the United Kingdom was not obliged, in terms of TEU article 4(3), to apply for a derogation; but rather it was obliged to adopt all necessary measures to put an end to the infringement of article 13 as soon as possible. The infringement for article 13 resulted, not from its decision not These proceedings were commenced in July 2011, shortly following the publication in June of air quality plans for consultation under article 23, which impose the zones for which the Secretary of State did not intend to apply under article 22 because compliance within the extended time limit was considered impossible. It is understandable therefore that the focus of the claim was on that article. Unfortunately, the time taken by the proceedings, including the reference to the CJEU, has meant that article 22, with one possible exception, is of no practical significance. An extension to January The CJEU's answer to the second question is clear. The critical breach is of article 13, not of article 22 or 23, which are supplementary in nature. As the CJEU commented at para 31: Member states must take all the measures necessary to secure compliance with that requirement [in article 13(1)] and cannot consider that the power to postpone the deadline, which they are afforded by article 22(1) of Directive 2008/50, allows them to defer, as they wish, implementation of those measures. Notwithstanding that clear statement, E. Easter Term [2013] UKSC 25 On appeal from: [2012] EWCA Civ 897 JUDGMENT R (on the application of ClientEarth) (Appellant) v The Secretary of State for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Respondent) Lord Hope, Deputy President before Lord Mance Lord Clarke Lord Sumption Lord Carnwath 1 May 2013 Heard on 7 March 2013 GIVEN ON Appellant Dinah Rose QC Emma Dixon Ben Jaffey (Instructed by Client 5. By article 4(1) the Commission was required to submit proposals on the setting of limit values for various atmospheric pollutants, one being nitrogen dioxide. They were required to take account of the factors listed in Annex II, which included economic and technical feasibility. A further Directive 1999/30/EC (the First Daughter Directive) contained the detail of the limit values, margins of tolerance, and deadlines for compliance for the various pollutants. A zone was defined as a part of their territory delimited by the Member States, and an agglomeration as; a zone Air quality plans. Article 23 Air quality plans 1. The term air quality plan was new to this directive, but not the content of article 23. Annex XV section A lists categories of information to be included in air quality plans generally (generally reproducing the categories in Annex IV of the Framework Directive); section B sets out additional information to to be provided under article 22(1), including information on all air pollution abatement measures that have been considered for implementation in connection with the attainment of air quality objectives, under specified 19. The UK Overview Document stated (referring to projections shown in Table 1): The table shows that of the 40 zones with exceedances in 2010, compliance may be achieved by 2015 in 23 zones, 16 zones are expected to achieve compliance between 2015 and 2020 and that compliance in the London zone is currently expected to be achieved before 2025 (para 1.3). 20. On 19 September 2011, the Secretary of State published an analysis of responses to the consultation. It stated, in response to comments that the plans did not meet the requirements for 26. Article 23 does no more than preserve the system already in place under the previous directive. It is not an alternative procedure for a state which is in breach of the limit value, nor a means by which it can avoid the more stringent controls set out in annex XV(B) or the maximum margins of tolerance set by article 22(3). 32. Article 22 is not mandatory, as indicated by the use of the word may in paragraph 22(1). An air quality plan demonstrating compliance by 1 January 2015 is only required if the state The question of whether a Member State is obliged to comply with article 13 of the Directive and/or article 4 TEU is one of the issues to which the