A. The law in question is contained in section 60 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994. It provides: (l) If a police officer of or above the rank of inspector reasonably believes Section 60 is directed towards the risk of violence involving knives and other that incidents involving serious violence may continue to take place in any locality in his police area, and that it is expedient to give an authorisation under this section to prevent their occurrence, (aa) that (i) a dangerous instrument or offensive weapon used in the incident is being carried in a particular locality at a particular time; or (b) that persons are carrying dangerous instruments or offensive weapons in a The events which gave rise to these proceedings took place on 9 September 2010. There was then a significant problem of gang related violence in the London Borough of Haringey, resulting from tensions between two rival gangs, and the risk that gangs from outside the borough would come to their aid. Between 1 and 9 September there were many police intelligence reports relating to violent crime and the use of firearms, knives and other offensive weapons. These indicated a risk of further violence on the afternoon, evening and night of 9 September. There followed details of the numerous intelligence reports, many to do with rivalry between the Wood Green Mob and the Grey Gang, which had led to this belief. The facts of the events which As it is admitted that the interference with Mrs Roberts rights was, in the circumstances, proportionate to the legitimate aim of preventing crime, her claim can only succeed if the power under which it was done is in itself incompatible with the Convention rights because it does not have the character of law as required by the Convention. That is the issue in this appeal. As Lord Reed explained in R (T) v Chief Constable of Greater Manchester Police [2014] UKSC 35; [2015] AC 49, at para 114, for the interference to be in accordance with the law, there must be safeguards which have the effect of enabling the proportionality of the interference in a The Strasbourg court was concerned at the breadth of the discretion given to the individual police officer, the lack of any need to show reasonable suspicion, or even subjectively to suspect anything about the person stopped and searched, and the risks of discriminatory use and of misuse against demonstrators and protesters in breach of article 10 or 11 of the Convention. The applicant refused to submit to a search when stopped and was arrested and prosecuted for failing to obey a lawful order. The applicants complaint that this interference with his article 8 rights was not in accordance with the law was limited to the ineffectiveness of the judicial remedies available, in particular that no prior judicial authorisation for the order was necessary (par In addition to the limited scope of the power in section 60 itself, it is necessary to take into account the other constraints upon the exercise of these powers. Those constraints arise both from the legal protection of the citizen from the misuse of police powers, and from the mechanisms designed to ensure that the police are accountable for their actions. In relation to legal protection, we have mentioned section 6 of the Human Rights Act, to which it will be necessary to return. In the event of a breach of that section, the victim of the unlawful act is entitled to seek a judicial remedy under section 8, which might in an appropriate case include an award of damages (as, for example 8 3. That general explanation forms the background to the constraints and safeguards applying specifically to the powers with which this appeal is concerned. First there are the requirements of sections 2 and 3 of PACE, which apply to most stop and search powers, including those under section 60 of the 1994 Act. Under section 2, before the officer begins the search, he must take reasonable steps to tell the person being searched his name, the station to which he is attached, the object of the search and the grounds for making it, and that the person can only be detained for the time reasonably required to carry out the search. Breach of section 2 would render the search unlawful (Osman v Director Any random suspicionless power of stop and search carries with the risk that it will be used it is a proportionate and necessary response for achieving the purpose for which Parliament provided the power. It suggests that the use of section 60 should be considered where there has been a significant increase in knife point robberies in a limited area and also, for example, for gang related violence or disorder, football related violence and events such as demonstrations and music concerts that typically include a large scale gathering of people which, combined with other factors, indicate a likelihood of violence or the commission of offences. The specific Standard Operating Procedures on Section 60 Criminal Justice and Public Order Act, current at the time, instructed senior officers giving 1. It is said that, without the need to have reasonable grounds for suspecting the person or vehicle stopped to be carrying a weapon, it is hard to judge the proportionality of the stop. We would dismiss this appeal. First, as to the authorisation itself: (i) the officer has reasonably to believe that the grounds for making an authorisation exist; (ii