These cases in owner is the treatment for rating purposes of ATMs (or automated teller machines) situated in supermarkets or shops. For convenience I shall refer to the respondents collectively as the retailers, to include (where different) the companies operating the ATMs. In each case the ATM itself was installed and operated, not directly by theretail company but under contractual arrangements with a related banking company. Although the contractual arrangements vary between the different groups, as discussed in detail in the judgments below, I do not understand I turn to the relevant statutory provisions, and the leading authorities. They were well established long before the 1967 Act. The first is Holywell Union Assessment Committee v Halkyn District Mines Drainage Co [1895] AC 117, 126, in which Lord Herschell LC said: There are many cases where two persons may, without impropriety, be said to occupy the same land, but the question has sometimes arisen which of them is rateable. A familiar illustration of this occurs in the case of a landlord and He referred to this as the landlord control principle, and having discussed its application to other cases, such as docks, he summarised the position: In truth the effect of the alleged control upon the question of rateable occupation must depend upon the facts in every case; and in my opinion in each case the degree of the control must be examined, and the examination must be directed to the extent to which its exercise would interfere with the enjoyment by the occupant of the premises in his possession for the purposes for which he occupies them, or would be inconsistent with To show how those principles have hitherto been applied to ATMs at tribunal or appellate court level, it is helpful to refer to a decision which is uncontentious, at least in its result. That is the decision of the Scottish Lands Valuation Appeal Court in Assessor for Central Scotland Joint Valuation Board v Bank of Ireland [2010] CSIH 91; [2011] RA 195. It related to a hole in the wall ATM in an outside wall of a sub post office. The court distinguished an earlier case, in which it had The first issue is whether the sites of the ATMs are capable of identification as separate hereditaments. As the Upper Tribunal explained (para 115) there were two aspects to the arguments under this head: [The retailers] submitted first that the boundaries of a hereditament could not be defined by reference only to the presence of a piece of machinery which was not itself liable to be rated. This argument was supported by reference to a number of authorities, but most particularly to the decision of the House of Lords in Kenn As already noted, they took a different view of the moveable ATM at Tescos Nottingham store. They described it as follows: On the first floor of the Nottingham store is a third ATM, which stands in a corner adjacent to a caf and customer toilets. The ATM is housed in a large metal cupboard, about 2 metres tall and 1.5 metres deep, which can be rolled forward to create a secure working area at the front of the ATM from which it can be serviced and replenished. Although this arrangement is slightly Mr Morshead, in his submission to the Court of Appeal on behalf of the retailers, makes a number of arguments in support of his view that the retailers are in exclusive occupation of their stores. One then asks how that has been affected by the transfer of operation to an associated company, and the limited possession given of the ATM sites, and whether nonetheless the occupation of the store owner remains paramount a concept which Lord Herschell chose to illustrate by reference to the familiar case of a landlord and his lodger. That question is to With respect, I find that distinction difficult to understand. In their discussion of this issue, the Upper Tribunal began (paras 161 168) by referring to the Scottish cases, in particular Clydesdale and Bank of Ireland, which, contrary to the view of the Court of Appeal and the view taken by the Tribunal, it regarded as faithful to the principles in Southern Railway. Further at para 176, although they may perhaps have read more into the concept of rivalry than Lord Russell had intended, they were clearly right to reject it as of any relevance in these cases 177. When considering rateable occupation in the context of a complementary activity like the provision of an ATM, we do not regard control or interference as particularly relevant considerations either. Both parties derive a direct benefit from the use of the site for the same purpose and share the economic fruits of the specific activity for which the space is used. We do not consider that it is generally helpful to characterise the Store and the Bank as rivals. Instead they preferred to consider the purpose of the occupation in question, 4. in respect first of the parparpar occupation of the site. 8. Having summarised the relevant principles of law, which he described as well established, familiar and complete (para 83), Lindblom LJ pointed to the Upper Tribunals finding (at para 169) that: in each instance here the retailer had not parted with possession of the ATM site and had remained in occupation of it, sharing actual occupation with the bank, that retailer and bank were not rivals in their occupation of that site