In order to understand the purpose of sections 103 and 106 of ICTA it is necessary to look at the prior law. Thus in Brown v National Provident Institution [1921] AC 222 the tax paying companies escaped tax on profits derived from transactions conducted in the preceding year because they did not carry on the trade in the tax year in which they received the profit generating sums. In 1930 Rowlatt J set out the basic principle in Bennett v Ogston (1930) 15 TC 374, in a passage which the House of Lords approved in the later cases to which I refer below. He said (at p 378): When a trader or a follower of a profession or vocation dies or goes out of business and there remain to be collected The effect of subsection (2) can be seen in relation to income tax on a partnership, before it was re worded to apply only to corporation tax. The only other provision which it is necessary to set out is section 106 of ICTA (as amended by section 882 of, and paragraph 85 of Schedule 1 to, the Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005) which governs the charge to tax in some, but not all, of the circumstances in which the rights to receive payments which are post cessation receipts are transferred. It superseded the decision of the House of Lords in Crompton v Reynolds 33 TC 288, [1952] 1 All ER 888. In simplified form the facts of case were as follows. A partnership of cotton brokers as asset of their trade was dissolved by a change in the persons carrying on the trade, After the trade of GUS plc was transferred to RGL on 1 April 1996 but the transferors right to receive a VAT repayment, which became VRP2C, was retained; (iii) the trades of Kay & Co and Abound were transferred to March UK Ltd (March) on 27 May 2003 but the rights to receive the repayments under section 80 of VATA 1994 were retained. No documentation vouching the transfers in (i) and (iv) above was available to the First tier Tribunal but the tribunal inferred and found as fact that in each case the whole of the trade was transferred, including the transferor right to VAT repayments. The tribunal did not have evidence of how the GUS group operated its treasury function but inferred that the trading companies had had to account to the representative member to fund the VAT due on their Section 6 of ICTA provided that corporation tax shall be charged on profits of companies. Section 8 of that Act provided that a company shall be chargeable to that tax on all its profits wherever arising, and section 9 provided that the amount of any income shall for purposes of corporation tax be computed in accordance with income tax principles, all questions as to the amounts which are or are not to be charged to tax as a persons income being determined in accordance of income tax law and practice. Section 18(3) set out the Cases in Schedule D. Case I charged tax in respect of any trade carried on in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. Section 32 of the 1960 Act addressed the circumstance, which I have discussed in paras 3 and 4 above, of Section 106(1), which I have set out in para 7 above, also supports a wide interpretation of the scope of the section 103 charge. Contrary to Mr Goldbergs submission, I cannot read the subsection as covering all transfers whether for value or for no consideration (other than the transfer of the right to receive the post cessation payments when there is a deemed discontinuance of the trade under subsection (2)). The opening words of subsection (1) show that the subsection relates to transfers for value. Where the transfer is at arms length, the transferor is charged under section 103 by reference to the stipulated consideration. The words in parenthesis substitute market value where the transfer does not involve a transfer for value, and the words in It is clear from the summary in para 11(ii) above that on the transfer of the trade of GUS plc in 1996, the entitlement to a VAT repayment arising from the discontinued trade, which became VRP2C, was not transferred. Similarly, Kay & Co and Abound retained their equivalent entitlements when their trades were transferred to RGL in 1997 (para 11(iii) above). Those entitlements were not transferred to SDHSL and the entitlements to the repayments of VAT were made to SDG. There is no explanation as to how those entitlements resulted in VRP 2C and VRP