It appears, therefore, that one of the principal purposes of Part 4, as envisaged at that stage, was to alter the existing law in relation to the sharing of information about children and young people, so as to enable information about concerns about their wellbeing, held by individual bodies, to be pooled in the hands of named persons and shared with other public authorities. This appeal concerns the question whether the provisions of the Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014 lie within the legislative competence of the a child or young person (defined by section 32, in this context, as meaning the person whose function it is to make arrangements for the provision of a named person service in relation to the child and young person). That will occur, for example, when a child first goes to school, and the service provider ceases to be the health board to which the child belongs, and becomes the local authority or directing authority of the school, or when the child goes from a local authority school to an independent or grant aided school, section of the Act. These provisions confirm that one of the central purposes of Part 4 is to establish new legal powers and duties, and new administrative arrangements, in relation to the sharing of information about children and young people, so as to create a focal point, in the form of named persons, for the pooling and sharing of such information, and the initiation of action to promote their wellbeing. Wellbeing is not defined. The only guidance as to its meaning is provided by section 96(2), which lists eight par 2.3.4) that the views of the child, young person or parents may differ from the practitioners view of wellbeing needs and states that a holistic assessment should take account of all views. Parental capacity and willingness to change should be considered in order to assess whether the childs wellbeing needs are likely to be met by voluntary support or whether a compulsory supervision order might be necessary. The childs wider wellbeing should also be assessed to ensure their current and future holistic needs are considered. The RDSG observes (at 7. It says, without elaborating, that there must be no other legal restrictions (paras 10.8.2): Any information shared must be legal and considered in terms of the principles and boundaries of data protection, human rights and childrens rights, again without elaboration. It explains section 26(11) in these terms (para 10.11.4): This sub section of the Act permits health professionals and others governed by a professional or common law duty of confidentiality to legally disclose relevant information without the The Directive was made under article 100a of the EC Treaty, which authorises measures for the harmonisation of national laws with the aim of achieving the internal market. The subject matter of the Directive is described in general terms in its title: it is a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, and the free movement of such data. The link between these two subjects is explained in the recitals. In particular, recital 7 states that the difference in levels of protection of the rights and freedoms The DPA is the measure implementing the Directive in the UK. One would therefore expect its subject matter to be the same as that of the Directive, and so it proves. Its provisions specify the standards of protection which the laws of the member states must afford, and the methods by which those standards are to be secured and enforced. Article 5 requires member states, within the limits of the provisions of that Chapter, to determine more precisely the conditions under which the processing of personal data is lawful. Article 6 sets out five general principles 1 The DPA was designed to implement the Directive by establishing standards of protection of individuals interests in relation to the use of their personal data, and methods by which those standards are to be secured and enforced, which are equivalent in effect throughout the UK. It allows scope, however, for derogation from certain of its requirements by legislation which need not be UK wide in application. Section 2 of the DPA defines sensitive personal data as including (amongst other matters) information as to a persons racial or ethnic origins, his physical or Section 23(2), 26(1) and 26(3) of the 2014 Act require the disclosure of personal data. Those provisions are the first data protection principle, except to the extent to which it requires compliance with the conditions in Schedules 2 and 3, the second, third, fourth and fifth data protection principles, section 10 (the right to prevent processing likely to cause damage or distress) and section 14 (1) to (3) (the rectification, blocking, erasure and destruction of data). Sections As sensitive data is subject to more than one of the protection principles of the DPA, the duties imposed by Part 4 of the 2014 Act are not satisfied. The terms in which that duty is imposed do not, on the other hand, meet the requirements of condition 5(b) in Schedule 2 and condition 7(1)(b) of the data protection principle. In each case, the data controller may disclose personal data to a third party if he considers that the data are likely to be relevant to the exercise of certain Does it follow, for the purposes of Section B2 of Schedule 5 to the Scotland Act, that any of the provisions of Part 4 of the 2014 Act relate to the subject matter of the DPA and the Directive? The fact that a provision of an Act of the Scottish Parliament requires or authorises the disclosure of personal data does not in itself mean that the provision is outside legislative competence: as explained earlier, the Dpa envisages in section 35(1), read with section 70(1) that In the context of this legislation, the interests protected by article 8 include both family life and privacy. Article 8 provides: The human rights challenge 1. Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence. There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise of this right except such as is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic wellbeing of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, The privacy of a child or young person is also an important interest. The concept of private life in article 8 covers the disclosure of personal data, such as information about a persons health, criminal offending, sexual activities or other personal matters. Article 8 protects confidential information as an aspect of human autonomy and dignity: Campbell v MGN Ltd [2004] 2 AC 457, Lord Hoffmann paras 50 51, Lady Hale para 134. Article 16 of the UNCRC provides: 1. No child shall be subjected to arbitrary In order to be in accordance with the law under article 8(2), the measure must not only have some basis in domestic law which it has in the provisions of the Act of the Scottish Parliament but also be accessible to the person concerned and foreseeable as to its effects. These qualitative requirements of accessibility and foreseeability have two elements. First, a rule must be formulated with sufficient precision to enable any individual if need be with appropriate advice to regulate his or her conduct: Sunday Times v United Kingdom (1979) 14 It is also necessary to ensure that the requirements of articles 7 and 8 of the Directive are met, so far as information falls within its scope. That is not a comprehensive account of the requirements imposed by the DPA: as explained above, those requirements were not fully discussed at the hearing of the appeal. Those requirements include, but are not limited to, compliance with at least one of the conditions in Schedule 1 to the DDA, and also, if the information in question is sensitive data, if it falls within the scope of 2015 1 WLR 5055, paras 2 and 60 per Lady Hale, para 69 per Lord Hodge. In their submissions, the Ministers treated the promotion of childrens wellbeing as being in itself a legitimate aim under article 8. They relied on international instruments in which the term wellbeing is used, although possibly not in quite as wide a sense as in the 2014 Act. For example, article 3(2) of the UNCRC provides: States Parties undertake to ensure the child such protection and care as is necessary for his or her The second question is whether the operation of the information sharing duties and powers in relation to any of the named persons functions will amount to a disproportionate interference with article 8 rights. The Act does not alter the statutory criteria of any compulsory measures. Thus the criteria for making a child assessment order in section 36(2) or a child protection order in sections 38 and 39 of the Childrens Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011 require (put shortly) reasonable grounds to suspect that the child is likely to suffer significant harm. The The appellants also challenge the information sharing provisions of sections 26 and 27 of the Act on the ground that they are incompatible with EU law. Counsel referred to the following articles of the CFR: article 7 (respect for private and family life), article 8 (protection of personal data), article 14 (protection to education)rightrightright and (3) to share information which is sensitive personal data, such as information about a persons health or sexual life, without the explicit consent of the data subject. In our discussion of reserved matters (par In summary, we conclude that the information sharing provisions of Part 4 of the Act (a) do not relate to reserved matters, namely the subject matter of the DPA and the Directive, (b) are incompatible with the rights of children, young persons and parents under article 8 of the ECHR because they are not in accordance with the law as that article requires, (c) may in practice result in a disproportionate interference with the article 8 rights of many people, such as children and young