Use used retail store in Streatham in the area of the London Borough of Lambeth (the Council). Planning permission was originally granted by the Secretary of State in 1985, but the use was limited by condition to sale of DIY goods and other specified categories, not including food sales. Following implementation, the permitted categories were extended by later consents (under section 73 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990), the most recent being in 2014 (the 2014 permission), which is in issue in this case. It is necessary to set out the operative parts in full: DECISION NOTICE DETERMINATION OF APPLICATION UNDER SECTION 73 TOWN AND COUNTRY PLANNING ACT The statutory frameworkIt is unnecessary to set out the familiar provisions of the 1990 Act relating to the definition of development, and to the granting of planning permission. Section 73 of the Act, on which the Council relied in granting the 2010 and 2014 permissions, is headed Determination of applications to develop land without compliance with conditions previously attached. It provides: (1) This section applies to applications for planning permission for the development of land without complying with conditions subject to which a previous planning permission was granted. The development to which this permission relates must be begun not later than the expiration of three years beginning from the date of this decision notice. (2) On such an application the local planning authority I agree with that analysis, which is not I understand in dispute before this court. However, it leaves open the question as to the effect of the new permission on conditions which have already taken effect following implementation of the earlier permission. The section does not assist directly. It does not say what is to happen if the authority wishes to change some conditions but leave others in place. It envisages two situations: either (a) the grant of a new permission unconditionally or subject to revised conditions, or (b) refusal of permission, leaving the existing permission in place with its conditions unchanged. It added: If the authority do decide that some variation of conditions is acceptable, a new alternative permission In summary, whatever the legal character of the document in question, the starting point and usually the end point is to find the natural and ordinary meaning of the words there used, viewed in their particular context (statutory or otherwise) and in the light of common sense. Having set out the planning history and the terms of section 73, Lewison LJ (paras 19 22) identified what he saw as the problem. While he acknowledged that it was clear what Lambeth meant to do in a very broad sense, he said: But that is not the question. The question is: what did Lambeth in fact do? The application was an application for the variation of a condition attached to the 2010 Lewison LJ went on to deal with the alternative formulation, based on implication of a condition in the same form as the proposed wording, holding that it failed to meet the stringent tests laid down by the authorities (paras 63 75). In particular he accepted a submission by Mr Lockhart Mummery that the judgments in Trump (like the decision on which they relied: Crisp from the Fens Ltd v Rutland County Council (1949 1951) 1 P & CR 48) decided no more than that implication might be made into an extant condition that was incomplete; they did not contemplate the implication of such a condition for a specific purpose. In line with the decision of the High Court in As a whole the wording of the operative part of the grant seems to me clear and unambiguous. The Council hereby approves an application for the variation of condition as set out below . There then follow precise and accurate descriptions of the relevant development, of the condition to be varied, and of the permission under which it was imposed. They are followed by statements first of the Original wording, and then of the Proposed wording; the latter stating in terms that the store is to be used for the sale of non food goods only and for no other goods. Further conditions are set out in terms of the conditions to be applied for in the original wording. Taken at face value the wording is Lambeth Borough Council v Reeds [2014] EWHC 2174 (Admin). The landowner applied for a planning permission for a development described as retention of the use of the land without compliance with condition 2 (improvements to public highway) . The local authority responded with a notice referring to the terms of the application, and expressed in these terms notice of its decision to APPROVE Planning Permission for the application set out above subject to the following conditions: Conditions None. There is an apparent conflict between the description of the proposed development, which refers not to an existing use but to the retention of a permitted use without cooperation with one condition in the 1992 planning permission