A group of test cases, representative of some 25,000 similar claims, established that British Coal had been negligent in failing to take reasonable steps to limit the exposure of employed miners to VWF from the excessive use of vibratory tools (Armstrong v British Coal Corpn [1998] CLY 975). As a result, the Department for Trade and Industry (DTI), which had assumed responsibility for British Coals relevant liabilities, set up a scheme in 1999 to provide tariff based compensation to miners who suffered from VWF as a result of exposure to excessive vibration (the Scheme). The Scheme was administered pursuant to a Claims Handling Arrangement (the CHA) dated 22 January 1999 and made between the DTI and a group of In February 1999 Mr Watkins instructed Hugh James Ford Simey Solicitors (the appellant) to act for him in relation to a claim under the Scheme. His claim was notified to the DTIs claims handlers on 10 February 1999. By November 1999 Mrs Barbara Kinsey, litigation solicitor within the appellant firm, had assumed responsibility for many VWF claims, including that of Mr Watkins, at the appellants office in Bargoed and, from 2001, Treharris. A claimant was not usually contacted by IRISC concerning his claim, but helpers were. This normally consisted of a telephone interview, which might last 15 minutes, during which the helper would be asked whether he or she had assisted with the tasks claimed and, if so, when they started to do so. (Schedule 7, paragraph 6. Judge Hawkesworth QC made an order in relation to a number of claims against solicitors arising out of the Scheme, directing that disputes about expert evidence and disclosure be dealt with at a hearing before him. The six test cases identified in the order did not include Mr Watkinss claim. A schedule to the order set out a standard form letter of instruction to such a single joint expert in terms approved by the judge. That standard form was adopted in the letter dated 21 January 2013 by which the parties to the present proceedings jointly instructed Mr Tennant, a consultant vascular surgeon. It stated: It is an issue in the proceedings whether Mr Watkins would, if properly advised, in fact have brought a Services claim at all. Whether Mr Watkins was, as The trial judge held that on the clinical findings and conclusions any award would have fallen short of 9,478. The judge took that view because on the consultants findings Mr Watkins would only have been offered 1,790 for general damages in general damages and a services claim would not have been possible. On appeal to the Court of Appeal (Underhill, Irwin and Singh LJJ) the appeal was allowed: [2018] PNLR 30. The appellant now appeals to this court with the permission of this court. On behalf of the appellant, Mr Michael Pooles QC submits that the trial judge was right to rely on the evidence of Mr Tennant for four reasons. (1) In the circumstances of this case, the question whether Mr Watkins had suffered loss should be determined as at the date of the trial of the claim against the It is necessary to consider whether Mr Watkinss original claim, which was accepted by the judge to be an honest claim, was of more than negligible value within the context of the Scheme. The Scheme has been described by Irwin LJ in the Court of Appeal and by counsel before us as a rough and ready scheme. This is a fair description. It was intended to provide an efficient and economic system for dealing with a huge number of claims in a way that was broadly fair. A deliberate decision was taken to deal with services claims by reference to presumptions derived from the diagnosis and staging found at MAP 1, as opposed to requiring a precise assessment of the underlying disability. More specifically, there was no provision within the Scheme whereby the DTI could appeal against a general award, nor did Mr Tennants report may have been relevant to the issue of causation in the claim by Mr Watkinss estate against his former solicitors. It was said that the extent of disability was relevant to that issue, while the medical examination in the MAP 1 procedure was predominantly directed at diagnosis and staging of the condition as opposed to the level of disability. The joint letter of instruction sent to Mr Tennant on 21 January 2015 (set out at para 13, above) reflected this reasoning. However, the defendants were entitled to investigate the implied averment that had the claimant been properly advised he would have made a services claim. (at para 7) The judge seems to have made the order for expert reports on that basis but expressly left open ( at para 9) the question as