At the material time the respondent, Mrs Cox, worked as the catering manager at HM Prison Swansea. She was in charge of four members of staff. She had day to day charge of all aspects of catering at the prison, including the operation of the kitchen, where meals were produced for the prisoners. There were also about 20 prisoners who worked in the kitchen and came under her supervision. Some kitchen supplies were delivered to the ground floor of the prison and Mrs Cox instructed four prisoners to take them upstairs to the kitchen stores. During the course of this operation, a sack of rice was dropped by one of the prisoners and burst open. Mrs Cox bent down to prop it up and prevent spillage. While she was bent over, another prisoner, Mr Inder, attempted to carry two sacks past her, lost his balance, and dropped one of those sacks on to Mrs Coxs back, causing her injury. On 10 September 2007 Mrs Cox was working The claim was heard by His Honour Judge Keyser QC in the Swansea County Court. In a judgment given on 3 May 2013, he found that the accident occurred because Mr Inder had failed to take reasonable care for Mrs Coxs safety, but dismissed the claim on the basis that the prison service was not vicariously liable for Mr Inders negligence. An appeal against that decision was allowed by the Court of Appeal: [2014] EWCA Civ 132; [2015] QB 107. McCombe LJ, giving a judgment with which Beatson and Sharp JJ agreed, focused like the judge on paras 35 and 47 of Lord Phillipss judgment in the Christian Brothers case. On the basis of a careful review of the law on vicarious liability, as stated in particular at paras 35 in the judgment of Lord Phillipsss judgment, and on one of the reasons for the decision of the court of appeal to allow the appeal, he focused on the question whether the The five factors which Lord Phillips mentioned in para 35 are not all equally significant. The first that the defendant is more likely than the tortfeasor to have the means to compensate the victim, and can be expected to have insured against vicarious liability did not feature in the remainder of the judgment, and is unlikely to be of independent significance in most cases. It is, of course, true that where an individual is employed under a contract of employment, his employer is likely to have a deeper pocket, can in any event be more likely to pay the victim than the defendant, to compensate him for the tort committed by the employee. The employer will be vicariously liable when the employee commits a tort in the course of his employment. At para 35 above, I have identified those incidents of the relationship between employer and employee that make it fair, just and reasonable to impose viciability liability on a defendant. There is no difficulty in identifying a number of policy Lord Phillips's analysis in the Christian Brothers case wove together these related ideas so as to develop a modern theory of vicarious liability. The essential idea is that the defendant should be liable for torts that may fairly be regarded as risks of his business activities, whether they are committed for the purpose of furthering those activities or not. This idea has been emphasised in recent times in United States and Canadian authorities, sometimes in the context of an economic analysis, but has much older roots, as I have explained. It was reaffirmed in the cases of Lister and Dubai Aluminium. In the latter case, Lord Nicholls of Birkenhead said at para 21: The underlying legal policy is based on the recognition that carrying on a business enterprise necessarily involves risks to others. It involves the risk that others will be harmed by wrongful acts committed by the agents through whom the business is carried on. When those risks ripen into loss, it is just that the business should be responsible for compensating the person In the case of Viasystems, E and the Christian Brothers, it is important to understand that the criteria set out by Lord Phillips for the application of the law of tort to the question of vicarious liability is not intended to be drawn from a particular category of cases, such as the sexual abuse of children. It is intended to provide a basis for identifying the circumstances in which Vicarious liability may in principle be imposed outside relationships of employment. By focusing upon the business activities carried on by the defendant and their attendant risks, it directs attention to the issues which are likely to be relevant in the context of modern workplaces, where workers may in reality be part of the workforce of an organisation without having a contract of employment with it, and also reflects prevailing ideas about the responsibility of businesses for the risks which are created by their activities. The three cases which I have discussed illustrate the general approach set out for the purpose of applying the criteria to the issue of vic 22. Mrs Cox was injured as a result of negligence by Mr Inder in carrying on the activities assigned to him. The prison service is therefore vicariously liable to her. A number of arguments were advanced against that conclusion on behalf of the Ministry. First and foremost, it was argued, on a number of grounds, that the relationship between the prison service and prisoners working in a prison is fundamentally different from that between a private employer and its employees. I am unable to accept this argument. The fact that the prison is required to serve part of his sentence in prison, and to undertake useful work there for nominal wages, binds him into a closer relationship than would be the case for an employee. More importantly, when prisoners work in the prison kitchen, or in other workplaces such as the gardens or the laundry, they are integrated into the operation of the prison. Furthermore, they work under the direction of prison staff. Their activities form part of the operation Fourthly, it was argued that there was a risk that the imposition of vicarious liability might lead the prison service to adopt an unduly cautious approach to the type of tasks which prisoners were given the opportunity to do, given the potential impact on scarce financial resources. There was also a risk of fraudulent claims being made for prisoner on prisoner incidents. I am not persuaded by these apprehensions. It is true that prisoners who participate in educational classes or offending behaviour programmes contribute towards their own rehabilitation, and in that sense may be said to be acting in furtherance of one of the aims of the prison system. But there is an intelligible distinction between taking part in activities of that kind and working as an