Applying the principles set out in Caparo Industries plc v Dickman [1990] 2 AC 605, the Lord Ordinary held that the appellant could not recover damages because it had not been in existence at the time when the email was sent. He approached the case as one where A (the appellant, through Mr Erskine acting as its agent) had relied upon a representation made by B The respondents are the owners of a grouse moor at Castle Grant, near Grantown on Spey, over which commercial shooting takes place. Recognising that there required to be substantial investment in the moor in order to increase the number of grouse, and being unwilling to undertake that investment themselves, they sought to attract a tenant. The matter was taken forward by their employee and chief executive, see also Macquarie Generation v Peabody Resources [2000]CA 361, 361, 362, 363, 364, 365, 366, 367, 368, 369, 3610, 3611, 3612, 3613, 3614, 3615, 3616, 3617, 3618, 3619, 3620, 3621, 3622, 3623, 3624, In the present case, it appears to me that the representation was made by Mr Erskine in the course of pre contractual discussions by a shareholder in a company. He was subsequently authorised by the other shareholders to continue the negotiations as their agent, and in due course a contract was concluded. The question then arises whether, in the circumstances of this case, the representation continued after the identity of the The law in Scotland governing the recovery of damages, where a party to a contract was induced to enter into it by a negligent misrepresentation made by or on behalf of another party to the contract, involves a consideration of section 10 of the Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1985 and of the authorities in which that provision has been discussed. Following the decision of the House of Lords in Hedley Byrne & Co Ltd 2. The law does not impose a general duty of care in the conduct of contractual negotiations, reflecting the fact that each party is entitled, within the limits set by the law, to pursue its own interests. Nevertheless, it has long been accepted that the relationship between the parties to contractual negotiations may give rise to such a duty in respect of representations which the representor can reasonably foresee are likely to induce the other party to The situation where a statement is made during contractual negotiations by one prospective contracting party is quite different. In Caparo the court was considering the familiar situation in which it is alleged that D, the defendant, was negligent in a statement made to C, the claimant, upon which C relied in entering into a transaction with T, a third party. It is readily understandable that in that type of situation cogent grounds are needed to Cramaso contended that the misrepresentation was made and did make a duty of care to Mr Erskine when making a representation to him about the grouse moor which they were hoping that he would lease. He rejected: the contention that a principal can disclaim responsibility for fraudulent misrepresentations made by his agent which, although made the agency commenced to the agents and did not act on behalf of the other party Mr Erskine and Cramaso have made statements to the trustees in the form of a statement to the effect that the trustees are not entitled to any money, and that the trustee is entitled to