Over two days in August 2012 Mr Ivey, the claimant in this case, deployed a highly specialist technique called edge sorting which had the effect of greatly improving his chances of winning. He had the help of another professional gambler, Cheung Yin Sun (Ms Sun). First they set up the conditions which enabled him to win. Then, later that evening and the following day, over the course of some hours, he won approximately 7 The claimant and Ms Sun were playing Punto Banco at Crockfords Casino, a high stakes casino, on 20 and 21 August 2012. Casinos routinely play on quirky and superstitious behaviour by punters. It is in the casinos interests that punters should believe, erroneously, that a lucky charm or practice will improve their chance of winning and so modify or defeat the house edge. Such knowledge, it is agreed, will give the The claimant did not play on the night of the 20th. Ms Yau was the croupier throughout. When she turned over the cards of the second coup, Ms Sun said of four of them, good, and of one, not good, in Cantonese. What she was being asked to do, and did, was to turn the cards which Ms Sun called as good end to end, and the not good cards side to 1 deception at gambling which wins a particular gambling which at gambling 17 of anything offence offence which is in the purpose of cheating person or cheating person) does anything at gambling, whether it is a real or virtual gambling, or whether it was conducted by a real person or a virtual person. The Gaming Act of 1664 (16 Car 2 c7) addressed what it identified as the social ill of excessive gambling, when conducted not for The House held that conspiracy to defraud required as an essential element that there had been deception, which had not been any part of the strategy employed by the defendants. In so holding, the House followed its own decision in Welham v Director of Public Prosecutions [1961] AC 103, where it had emphasised that the essence of defrauding was the effect on the victim. The substantial issue before the House of Lords was whether 4. Authority apart, Mr Spearman contended that as a matter of ordinary English, cheating necessarily imports dishonesty. This argument is most neatly encapsulated by inversion: honest cheating is indeed, as has been sensibly recognised by those who have addressed the phrase in this litigation, an improbable concept. But that is because to speak of honest cheating would be to suggest that some cheating is right, rather than wrong. That would indeed be contrary to the natural see to criminal of dishonesty it is prevented from being used as a legal element of fraud, and as a matter of fact it is not. Except to the limited extent that section 2 of the Theft Act 1968 requires otherwise, judges do not, and must not, attempt to define it: R v Feely [1973] QB 530. In this it differs strikingly from the expression fraudulently, which it largely replaced, for the judge did ( Therefore R v Hayes [2015] EWCA Crim 1944) and the removal of golf balls at night from the bottom of a lake on a private golf course) A significant refinement to the test for dishonesty was introduced by R v Ghosh [1982] QB 1053. The defendant locum surgeon had claimed payment for operations which either he had not performed, or which had been carried out under the National Health scheme so that no fees were due The court in Ghosh did not ask the question whether dishonestly, where that word appears in the Theft Act, was intended to characterise a course of conduct or to describe a state of mind. The answer to the courts question is that dishonesty, where it appears, is indeed intended to be characterised by a person’s actual state of knowledge or belief about the facts affecting the area of activity in which he was engaging. It I treated an subjective and W41 in something of an attempt to make the law more objective. Prior to the Theft Act 1968, the expression dishonestly had not appeared in the legal definition of acquisitive offences. The mental element was usually marked by the expression fraudulently. There is no doubt that that latter expression involved an objective evaluation of the defendants conduct, given his actual state of knowledge and belief as to the facts. The Criminal Law Revision Committee, in its Feely v Williams [1978] 1 WLR 873, decided in January 1978. Like some others, the case concerned a defendant employee who had helped himself to money from the till knowing that such a thing was forbidden, but contended by way of defence that he had intended to repay it, and that his employers owed him money anyway. The charges, of obtaining property by deception, depended on the representation made when a cheque Ivor in November 1981. This was, like Feely, a case of unauthorised taking from the till by an employee. However, its context was an alleged banking fraud consisting of dealing with money of lenders and depositors in ways which were likely to, and did, lead them to lose their money. The ways included reckless and unsecured speculation, preferential payments to connected companies, the preparation of false accounts, the lodging of false Bank of The test of dishonesty is as set out by Lord Nicholls in Royal Brunei Airlines Sdn Bhd v Tan and by Lord Hoffmann in Barlow Clowes: see para 62 above. The test of