The foreign national is Ms Rhuppiah. The Home Secretary determines to exercise his power to remove a foreign national from the UK. The foreign national contends that the determination is unlawful on the ground that her removal would violate her right to respect for her private life under article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and section 6(1) of the Human Rights Act 1998 (the 1998 Act). Section 117B of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (the 2002 Act) provides that a person may be entitled to resist removal under the terms of article 8. But article 8 itself, as interpreted by the European Court of Human Rights (the ECtHR), confers upon the relevant The relevant facts can be taken from a determination of conspicuous clarity and sensitivity made by Judge Blundell following a substantial oral hearing. Ms Rhuppiah is a Tanzanian national, now aged 45. She lived in Tanzania until 1997, when she entered the UK with leave to reside here as a student for three months. She then proceeded to study at a college in the UK and gained a variety of qualifications in business studies and associated fields. Her mother and one of her brothers still reside in Tanzania. Her other brother lives in Basingstoke; and he has a daughter, aged nine, with whom she is on close terms. Her father works for the UN in Sudan and regularly sends money to the UK for her support. As a result of her extensive studies in the United Kingdom, she was granted leave to remain in the country for a period Section 117B(5) falls within Part 5A of the 2002 Act, which was inserted into it, with effect from 28 July 2014, by section 19 of the Immigration Act 2014. See Deelah (section 117B ambit) [2015] UKUT 00515 (IAC), paras 18 and 21. Section 117B4) is not engaged in the present case: it is an application of the public interest question (1) which is the question of whether an interference with a persons right to respect for private and family life is justified under article 8(2). 117B Article 8: public interest considerations applicable in all cases In subsection (2), it is necessary to set out a substantial amount of the part 5A, as follows: 117 In its numerous subsequent reiterations of the consideration identified in the Mitchell case the ECtHR has adapted it so as to extend to cases in which the context of the alleged family life was not a marriage. The court said, at p 4: An important though not decisive consideration will also be whether the marriage was contracted at a time when the parties were aware that the immigration status of one of them was such that the persistence of the marriage within the host state would from the outset be precarious. In that case a mother and her young daughter relied on their family life together. Her husband had been admitted to the UK as a visitor for six months; and for the following five years, in the course of which the applicant had married him, he had remained in the UK unlawfully. At all times In the Mitchell case the ECtHR to which I have referred it has applied it. But it is worthwhile to note the way in which Lord Reed expressed himself in a judgment with which the other members of the court agreed. In para 45 of his judgment in the present case Sales LJ recorded that it was common ground that the starting point for consideration of the proper construction of Part 5A of the 2002 Act is that sections 117A 117D are intended to provide for a structured approach to the application of article 8 which produces in all cases a final result which is compatible with, and not in violation of, article 8. Having in para 49 addressed the Jeunesse case, he suggested in para 51 (and in effect repeated in para 54) that persistence of family life would be precarious if created Sales LJ held at para 20 that their private lives in the UK had been established when their immigration status had been precarious within the meaning of section 117B(5) and that his appeal against the determination to remove them should be dismissed. The provisional view of Sales LJ, set out in para 25 above, was that leave to remain short of indefinite leave might sometimes confer on a person a status not properly to be described as precarious; and that the concept of precariousness might fall to be applied having regard to the persons overall circumstances. As an aside, however, at para 30, he described as clear and concise the central decision which in the AM case the same tribunal had recently reached (see para 39(d) above) and advised judges and practitioners constantly to be alert to it. The There was lively argument before the Court of Appeal about whether Judge Blundell understood the effect upon section 117B(5) of section 117A(2)(a), then recently enacted, and, if not, whether the advocates (none of whom appeared in this court) had failed to give him the necessary assistance in that regard. McCloskey J suggested in para 23 of the Deelah case, cited in para 21 above, that the drafting wins no literary prizes. In the light of the now academic nature of the present appeal there is no need for this court either to explore this issue or to appraise the firm conclusion of Sales LJ at para 57, at first sight slightly surprising, that there were no such particularly strong features of Ms Rhuppiahs private life as would justify It nevertheless follows that Judge Blundell erred in law in holding that section 117B(3) of the 2002 Act applied to Ms Rhuppiahs appeal and therefore that it identified an aspect of the public interest negative to her claim. It was the view of Sales LJ at para 65 that, if the phrase financially independent referred to independence of the state, the quoted words were close to tautological. Had those words been part of the statement as to where the public