Ms Minah Janah, the Respondent to this appeal, is a Moroccan national. In 2000, when she was working for the Sudanese government in Iraq, she agreed to move to the United Kingdom to work for its embassy in London as a housekeeper and cook to the ambassador. She entered the United The State Immunity Act 1978 was enacted by the Parliament of the United Kingdom in 1978. Properly speaking, it comprised two immunities whose boundaries were not necessarily the same: an immunity from the adjudicative jurisdiction of the courts of the forum, and a distinct immunity from process against its property in the forum The respondents case is that sections 4(2)(b) and 16(1)(a) of the State Immunity Act 1978 are incompatible with article 6 of the Convention, because they unjustifiably bar access to a court to determine their claims. The Convention scheduled to the Diplomatic Privileges Act of 1964 is the State immunity is a mandatory rule of customary international law which defines the limits of a domestic courts jurisdiction. It derives from the principle of sovereign equality of States, which, as article 2, para 1, of the Charter of the United Nations makes clear, is one of the fundamental principles of the international legal order. 53. The Court must be mindful of the Conventions special character as a human rights treaty, and it must also take the relevant rules of international law into account. It recalls that the Convention has to be interpreted in the light of the rules set out in the Vienna Convention of 23 May 1969 on the Law of 67. The Supreme Court of Lithuanias decision appears to have been closely based on the Strasbourg courts decision in Fogarty. It had upheld Polands claim to state immunity on the ground that: there was no uniform international practice of states whereby the members of staff of foreign states diplomatic missions who participated in the 51. Sabeh El Leil v France (2011) 54 EHRR 14 arose out of another unfair dismissal claim, this time brought in the French courts by the head of the accounts department of the Kuwaiti embassy in Paris. The Court found that article 6 had been violated because the Cour de Cassation had not To identify a rule of customary international law, it is necessary to establish that there is a widespread, representative and consistent practice of states on the point in question, which is accepted by them on the footing that it is a legal obligation (opinio juris): see Conclusions 8 and 9 of the The Secretary of State is proposing that the English courts should not determine points of customary international law but only the tenability of some particular view about them. The argument is based on the observation of the European Court of Human Rights in Al Adsani (para 56) that measures taken by a High Contracting Party which Secondly, it is important to distinguish between a drafting technique and a principle of law. It is true that the State Immunity Act 1978 adopts the drafting technique of stating a presumptive immunity subject to exceptions. The same drafting technique is employed in other national legislation, especially in common law jurisdictions, for example the United Before the age of state trading organisations, there were few occasions for testing the limits of state immunity. The earliest notable landmark was the judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States in The Schooner Exchange v McFaddon 11 US 116 (1812), delivered by Chief Justice Marshall. The Exchange was a trading vessel belonging 19 When the Courts of this Lords, in the Parlement Belge [1938] AC 485, the Court of Appeal in The Porto Alexandre [1920] P 30. The speeches need to be read in conjunction with the fuller account of the facts and arguments which are reported at (1938) 19 The Parlement Belge was not the only case in which the absolute doctrine of state immunity was not accepted by the courts. For what follows, I am indebted to the extensive reviews of this large body of material by Sir Hersch Lauterpacht in his influential article The Problem of Jurisdictional Immun Three points can be derived from this history. The first is that there has probably never been a sufficient international consensus in favour of the absolute doctrine of immunity to warrant treating it as a rule of customary international law. Secondly, while there has for at least two centuries been a consensus among nations in The question of whether a state is immune in relation to a contract of employment has been an issue for many years. The Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations divides the staff of a diplomatic mission into three broad categories: (i) diplomatic agents, ie the head of mission and the diplomatic staff; (ii) administrative and technical staff; and ( At the time when the State Immunity Act was enacted, the application of state immunity to contracts of employment had only lately emerged as a potential problem. States had traditionally recruited the staff of diplomatic and representative missions at home. The employment of locally recruited staff in significant numbers was a recent development. There was, however, The result is that the State Immunity Act 1978 can be regarded as giving effect to customary international law only so far as it distinguishes between exercises of sovereign authority and acts of a private law character, and requires immunity to be conferred on the former but not the latter. Under the terms of the Act, contracts of employment are 2. Article 7 provides that a sending state may freely appoint members of the staff of a diplomatic mission. The staff referred to include the technical, administrative and domestic staff as well as the diplomatic staff: see article 1. Article 32 of the European Convention on State Immunity and article 3.1 of the United Nations Convention The Court of Appeal (2013), 201 2, have held that it could not have meant this in the light of the travaux preparatoires. It is, however, unnecessary to decide the point, because it is in my view clear that if article 11(2)(b)(iv) means what it says I would dismiss the Secretary of States appeal and affirm the order of the Court of Appeal. Article 47 of the EU Charter of Fundamental RightsArticle 47 provides, so far as relevant, that: everyone whose