National policy to combat climate change has also been in a state of development. As a result of consideration over a long period, successive governments have come to the conclusion that there is a need for increased airport capacity in the South East of England to foster the development of the national economy. The proposals for such expansion have therefore given rise to a considerable degree of concern as to the environmental impact it would be likely We have been informed by the Secretary of State for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) that the ANPS is of no legal effect. On 25 June 2018 there was a debate on the proposed ANPS in the House of Commons, followed by a vote approving the ANRS by 415 votes to 119, a majority of 296 with support from across the House. Prior to the Covid 19 pand Paragraph 3.2 identified a number of particular problems caused by the absence of a clear national policy framework. For example, inspectors at public inquiries might be required to make assumptions about national policy and national need, often without clear guidance and on the basis of incomplete evidence. Decisions by Ministers in individual cases might become the means by which government policy would be expressed, rather than such decisions being framed by clear policy objectives Section 5 of the PA 2008 is concerned with Deciding applications for orders granting development consent. It simply sets the policy framework within which any application for a DCO must be determined. A proposed NPS must be laid before Parliament (section 9(2) and (8)). The Act thus provides an opportunity for a committee of either House of Parliament to scrutinise and to make recommendations; and for each House to scrutin Again, we gratefully draw on the account given by the Divisional Court. As they explain, the UK has for a long time appreciated the desirability of tackling climate change, and wished to take a more rigorous domestic line. In the 2003 White Paper, Our Energy Future Creating a Low Carbon Economy, the Government committed to reduce CO2 emissions by 60% on 1990 levels by 2050; and to achieve real Again, in this section we gratefully draw on the careful account given by the Divisional Court. As they explain, Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment as amended (the EIA Directive), as currently transposed by the Town and Country Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017 (SI 2017 According to the PA 2008, the ANPS designated under section 5 sets out the framework for decisions on whether a DCO for the development of an additional runway at Heathrow under Part 6 of that Act should be granted. That development would, in due course, require environmental impact assessment under the EIA Directive and Regulations; and there is no dispute in the case of the decision to designate an ANPS, 3) The Secretary of State made it plain in the strategicenvironmental assessment process that the AoS drew upon and updated the extensive work which had previously been carried out by, and on behalf of, the Airports Commission, including numerous reports to the Ministry of Transport, as well as a number of different agencies and bodies, including the Environment Agency and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. It is While legal parties to the Paris Agreement have commenced the legal proceedings against industrial development proceedings against the United Kingdom and other claimants below the level of legal duty and duty for the UK to comply with the commitments of the Paris Climate Change Conference. Each party agreed to prepare, communicate and maintain successive nationally determined contributions (NDCs) that it intended to achieve and to pursue domestic mitigation measures with the aim In December 2017 the Secretary of State for BEIS published the UKs Climate Change Strategy. In relation to aviation emissions it stated that it was currently uncertain how international carbon emissions would be incorporated into the Governments carbon budget framework, that policy was developing and would be progressed during the development of the Aviation Strategy. It stated (para 6.24): The government will look again at what domestic policies are available to complement its international approach and will 83 3. In Aviation 2050: The future of UK aviation the Department stated (paras 3.87) that it proposed to negotiate in the International Civil Aviation Organisation (the UN body responsible for tackling international aviation climate emissions) for a long term goal for international aviation that is consistent with the temperature goals of the Paris Agreement and that it would consider appropriate domestic action to support international progress. In the same month, 82 of the ANPS which we have set out in para 87 above. The ANPS requires that the scheme be assessed against the carbon reduction targets in place at the time when a DCO application is determined: para 5. Before turning to the legal challenges in this appeal it is also important to emphasise that, as we have stated in para 10 above, HAL, FoE and Plan B Earth agree that should the Plan B Earth and FoE did not seek to support the conclusion of the Court of Appeal (para 228) that it followed from the solemn act of the United Kingdoms ratification of [the Paris Agreement] that the Governments commitment to it was part of Government policy. In our view the phrase is looking to carefully formulated written statements of policy such as one might find in an NPS, or in statements of Mr Crosland sought to raise an argument under section 5(8) of the Human Rights Act 1998 that the Government had adopted and articulated a policy that it would seek to introduce a specified new carbon target into section 1 of the CCA 2008 by presenting draft subordinate legislation to that effect for the approval of Parliament. Mr Crosland placed great emphasis on the facts (i) that the Airports Commission had assessed the rival schemes against scenarios, one 4. The basic legal approach is agreed. A useful summation of the law was given by Simon Brown LJ in R v Somerset County Council, Ex p Fewings [1995] 1 WLR 1037, 1049, in which he identified three categories of consideration, as follows: [T]he judge speaks of a decision maker who fails to take account of all and only those considerations material to his 69 of the ANPS the Secretary of State stated: The Government has a number of international and domestic obligations to limit carbon emissions. Emissions from both the construction and operational phases of the [NWR Scheme] project will be relevant to meeting these obligations. This statement covered the Paris Agreement as well as other international treaties. At paras 5.71 and 5.72 5.73 of the The Divisional Court considered the claims brought against the Secretary of State at a rolled up hearing lasting many days and considered each claim in full and in depth. As mentioned above, this case is in the class referred to in para 121 above. In respect of all aspects of the Divisional Courts decision, both in relation to those claims on which it granted permission for judicial review but then dismissed the claim and on which after full Ground (ii): the Paris Agreement ground. FoE and Plan B Earth UK complain that the environmental report which the Secretary of State was required under the SEA Directive to prepare and publish was defective, in that it did not make reference to the 2015 Paris Agreement. The respondents did not seek to argue that this aspect of his reasoning was irrational. But in light of the extensive work done by the Airports Commission The Divisional Court and the Court of Appeal in the present case endorsed this view (at paras 401 435 and paras 126 144 of their respective judgments). The respondents have not challenged this and we see no reason to question the conclusion of the courts below on this issue. It is common ground that the effect of article 5(2) and (3) is to confer on the Secretary of State a discretion regarding the information to 18 8. The appositeness of Sullivan Js analysis in Blewett at para 41, quoted above, has been borne out in this case. The draft ANPS issued with the AoS for the purposes of consultation included the statement that it was compatible with the UKs international obligations in relation to climate change. It again appears from this material that the Secretary of State did have regard to the Paris Agreement when deciding FoEs argument on the relevance to the objectives of the Paris Agreement of the impacts of emissions after 2050 was straightforward. Lord Anderson points out, and FoE accepts, that the Airports Commission assessed the carbon emissions of each of the short listed schemes over a 60 year appraisal period up to 2085/2086 and that the same appraisal period was used in the AoS which accompanied the ANPS This approach of addressing the question of capacity by reference to CO emissions targets, keeping the policy in relation to non CO emissions under review 5 5 5 The Airports Commission has not been able to assess the impact of the non CO effects of aviation and these have not been included in the AoS assessment. It is recommended that further work be done on these impacts by the applicant during the detailed scheme design, It follows that HAL succeeds on each of grounds (i) to (iv) of its appeal. It is not necessary therefore to address ground (v) which is concerned with the question whether the court should have