The Housing Act 2004, Part 2 replaced the previous law on HMOs which was to be found in the Housing Act 1985, Part XI (the 1985 Act). The 1985 Act defined an HMO as a house which is occupied by persons who do not form a single household but left the word household undefined. The 1999 consultation paper, Licensing of Houses in Multiple Occupation England (DETR, 1999), which preceded the 2004 Act observed (section 2, para 24) that, as a result of this judgment, housing authorities were wary of attempting to use their HMO powers in shared houses, particularly those occupied by students. In Barnes v Sheffield City Council (1995) 27 HLR 719 the Court of Appeal set out a number of factors relevant to determining whether occupants were living together in a house. It held that in the particular The properties44, Rothesay Avenue and 50, Bute Avenue are both terraced houses of traditional brick construction with a slate roof. Both are used for letting to students and in each case the attics have been converted into bedrooms. In each property the front attic bedroom has a sloping ceiling which reduces the area regarded by Nottingham as useable living space below eight square metres. In carrying out its measurements Nottingham disregards all space with a floor to ceiling height of less than 1.53 metres. The assessment of the attic bedroom at 50, bute Avenue was to similar effect. Nottinghams decisions and the appeals                In each case Nottingham granted a new HMO licence which imposed a condition prohibiting the use of the second floor front bedroom for sleeping. The relevant room includes a double bed, desk, chest of drawers, bedside table, bookshelves Nottingham now appeals to the Supreme Court, by leave granted by this Court, on the following grounds: Ground 1: The power to impose conditions under sections 64 and 67, Housing Act 2004, in order to make an HMO suitable for a particular number of households or persons, cannot be used so as to limit the class of persons for whom the HMO is suitable. Ground 2: The conditions imposed by the Tribunals and Court of Appeal are irrational and unenforceable. Ground 1Submissions of the partiesOn behalf of Nottingham, Mr Andrew Arden QC submits that the conditions imposed seek to make the use of sleeping accommodation in part of a HMO for full time students otherwise than in the circumstances permitted by the legislation. In his submission the legislation, at this stage, is unequivocal and concerned only with numbers. Section 64(3)(a Section 64(3)(a) indicates that the purpose of the imposition of conditions is to make a house reasonably suitable for occupation by not more than the maximum number of households or persons specified in the application or decided by the housing authority. In some instances, the personal occupation or activities of an occupier will have a bearing on whether the legislation applies. In this regard it is significant that elsewhere in Part 2 of the 2004 Act the manner of occupation of a house and the general characteristics of occupants are considered relevant in contexts connected with HMOs and with housing standards generally. Thus, for example, persons carrying out domestic services are regarded as occupying the same household as their employer if they are occupying rent free tied accommodation in the same building (2006 Regulations, regulation 3); a full time student is regarded as occupied accommodation as his only or main residence if it is occupied for the Mr Arden submits that there is no doubt that the manner of occupation of a room and the type of occupant may have a bearing on the suitability of a particular room for a particular use and that this is reflected in the guidance referred to above. Nevertheless, I agree with him that it provides a useful point of reference. However, the critical question is whether the approach reflected in such guidance is consistent with the present legislation. It is clear that Part 2 of the 2004 Act is intended to apply to shared student houses. Express provision is made in section 259(2)(a) in respect of occupation for the purpose of undertaking a full time course of further or higher education and the effect of section 254(5) and Schedule 14, paragraph 4 is, by way of exception, to remove from this regulatory scheme certain buildings occupied by students. The imposition of conditions I agree with the Court of Appeal that the conditions imposed by the Tribunals were deficient in that they failed to require any part of the HMO to be available for communal living and did not require the bedrooms other than the front attic bedrooms to be let to students. The conditions go no further than setting up the possibility of sharing. In addition, it is said that the condition limiting occupation for a maximum period of ten calendar months over a period of one year is irrational. Either the rooms are or are not suitable to be used as sleeping accommodation all the year round. The judgments below are said to have proceeded on the basis of an image of student life which is simply not true of all or necessarily most students, and this is an irrational basis for determining who may or may not occupy an HMO. The Secretary of State has taken no position on this ground of For these reasons, and subject to the deletion of the requirement of occupation for only ten months in each year, I consider that the conditions imposed