Mr Christopher Stott is paralysed from the shoulders down and is a permanent wheel chair user. When travelling by air, he depends on his wife to manage his incontinence since he cannot move round the aircraft. He also relies on her to help him to eat and to change his sitting position. Thomas Cook Tour Operators Ltd is a well known tour operator which provides overseas package holidays and flights to many destinations. It is an air carrier with an operating licence granted by a Member State of the EU and therefore subject to the obligations imposed on Community air carriers by the EC Disability Regulation. On 12 September 2008 Mr Stott booked with the defendant to fly from East Midlands Airport to Zante, departing 22 September and returning 29 September 2008. Soon after making The general purpose of the EC Disability Regulation is apparent from the following paragraphs of the preamble: (1) The single market for air services should benefit citizens in general. Consequently, disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, whether caused by disability, age or any other factor, should have opportunities for air travel comparable to those of other citizens. This applies to air travel as to other areas of life. Article 1 provides: 1. The provisions of this Regulation shall apply to all persons, regardless of whether they are disabled or have reduced mobility. Article 2 provides: (3) This Regulation shall provide for the protection of and the provision of assistance to disabled persons, including assistance to meet their particular needs. In the interests of social inclusion, the persons concerned should receive The full title of the Montreal Convention is the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules for International Carriage by Air. It was agreed at Montreal on 28 May 1999. The EU is a signatory. Its purpose according to the preamble was to modernize and consolidate the Warsaw Convention and related instruments. The Montreal Convention replaced its Warsaw Convention but followed its general structure. Each begins by stating that the Convention applies to all international carriage of persons, baggage or cargo performed by aircraft for reward. Two features of the Conventions are of critical relevance. First, there are limits to the type of injury or damage which is compensable and the amount of compensation recoverable. Bodily injury (or lsion corporelle) has been held not to include mental injury, such Air passenger v France v The Court of Appeals of the Court of Appeal of the United States of America, in the case of Air passenger his entitled to sue the airline for damages arising out of his international carriage by air under article 17 of the Warsaw Convention (the earlier equivalent of article 29 of the Montreal Convention): Decisions of the courts of other Convention signatories corroborate our understanding of the Convention's preemptive effect. In the USA the leading authority is the decision of the Supreme Court in El Al Israel Airlines Ltd v Tseng 525 US 155 (1999). The plaintiff was subjected to an intrusive security search at John F Kennedy International Airport in New York before she boarded a flight to Tel Aviv. She sued the airline under New York tort law for 2012au) (determining that fraud claim was preempted by Article 18, because the events that gave rise to the action were so closely related to the loss of [plaintiffs'] luggage . as to be, in a sense, indistinguishable from it). The judge noted that in a number of cases US District Courts had addressed the issue whether discrimination claims were preempted under the Convention and had all reached a similar view. She concluded her judgment with some broader observations which have a resonance in the present case: Plaintiffs raise the specter that our decision will open the doors to blatant discrimination aboard international flights, invoking images of airline passengers segregated according to race and without legal recourse. They suggest that, despite Article 24's plain mandate that the Warsaw Convention preempt Mr Allen relied on a line of cases in which the CJEU has considered the compatibility of the Montreal Regulation with the provisions of another EU Regulation, No 261/2004, requiring compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denial of boarding, cancellation or long delays of flights. He accepted that none of them was conclusive in relation to the present case, but he submitted that the court ought to refer the following questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU): (a) Whether the right to compensation for breach of duties to take reasonable steps to assist disabled persons in the context of air travel (which the Union legislator specifically contemplated in the EC Disability Regulation), like the rights to compensation and accommodation conferred by the Montreal Convention in respect of the breaches of duties imposed on board the aircraft and earlier, like compensation for delay awarded under Regulation 261/ 2004, should be regarded as falling within a different regulatory framework that does not conflict with the MC (rather than in The embarrassment and humiliation which Mr Stott suffered were exactly what the EC and UK Disability were intended to prevent. Under the law as it stands, a declaration that the carrier was in breach of the UK Regulations is likely to be small comfort to a passenger who has had Mr Stotts experience, but I draw attention, as did Sotomayor CJ at the end of her opinion in King v American Airlines, to the fact that there are other possible means of enforcement. It is for the Civil Aviation Authority to decide what other methods of enforcement should be used, including possible criminal proceedings. It seems unfair that a person who suffers ill treatment of the kind suffered by Stott should be denied any compensation. Mr Allen submitted that the consequences were unfair, because if 1. There is a respectable case to be made that what happened to Mr Stott on board the plane amounted to inhuman or degrading treatment within the meaning of article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights (see, for example, the case of Price v United Kingdom (2002) 34 EHRR 1285, concerning the conditions in which a severely disabled woman