Schedule 7 of TA 2000 has been somewhat amended, by the Anti Social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 (the 2014 Act), since the date when the appellant was questioned, but the issues of compatibility questioned remain substantially the same. The The appellant Mrs Beghal passed through East Midlands Airport on 4 January 2011. She was returning from Paris where she had visited her husband, who is a French national in custody, so the courts have been told in this litigation, in relation to terrorist offences. (The court was given no further information about him.) She was accompanied by her three children. The power in issue in The current Code of Practice was issued in 2014. Amongst its provisions are the following: (i) examining officers must be specially trained and authorised for the purpose and must normally be police officers; an immigration or customs officer is in effect to be used only exceptionally and when specifically designated by the Secretary of State In the most recent reports of David Anderson QC. These reports make clear the conclusion that the presence of a port questioning and search power which does not require prior objectively established suspicion on reasonable grounds has undoubted utility in the struggle against terrorism. The June 2012 report sets out these conclusions at para 9 It is well established that the primary constituent of the requirement that interference with an ECHR right must be in accordance with the law (legality) is that there must be a lawful domestic basis for it, that this law must be adequately accessible to the public and that its operation must be sufficiently foreseeable, so that people who 27 As an island nation it has long been the British way to concentrate controls at its national frontiers, and to maintain a correspondingly greater freedom from random checks inland. This is not always the practice adopted in continental countries which have long land frontiers. But our geography gives us a unique opportunity to target checks The fact that questioning is not dependent on the existence of objectively established grounds for suspicion does not by itself that there are not adequate safeguards or that the power is not in accordance with law. Although it is obvious that questioning and search powers are in one sense a different power from search, there are in the case In Bank Mellat v HM Treasury (No 2) [2013] UKSC 39; [2014] AC 700, 770 771, para 20 Lord Sumption conveniently formulated the concept of proportionality into four questions. There has been no dispute in the present appeal about this formulation: (i) The power of detention here under consideration exists only as an ancillary to the Schedule 7 powers of port questioning and search, that is to say to reinforce them and to make them effective. Detention under Schedules 7 and 8 may involve the removal of the individual to a police station, and even if it The use of this power does not arise in the present appeal and it was not separately argued. There was no requirement to attend a police station. Accordingly, there was in this case no breach of article 5. Paragraph 11A(3) of Schedule 7 permits retention under three heads. It may be retained for 3. Fundamental rights cannot be overridden by general or ambiguous words. In the absence of express language or necessary implication to the contrary, the courts therefore presume that even the most general words were intended to be subject to the basic rights of the individual. This is because there is too great The relevant factual and legal background is set out in the judgment of Lord Hughes at paras 1 27 above, and we agree with most of his subsequent reasoning. There is nothing we wish to add to what Lord Hughes says in paras 57 70 in relation to electronic data, self incrimination and article 6 of the Convention. However R 2 is the right to stop and question people at ports or borders on a random, or unpredictable, basis ie on a basis which cannot be predicted by those passing through the ports and borders provided that that right is properly regulated and supervised, and as predictable and controlled as reasonably possible. Turning to this case see the review of Gillan, summarised above, appear to us to arise here. When considering whether the legality principle is satisfied in relation to a particular system, it appears clear from the reasoning in the judgment in Gillan that one must look not only at the provisions of the statute or other relevant instrument which gives rise to the The opportunity to exercise a coercive power in an arbitrary or discriminatory fashion is antithetical to its legality. The primary question in this case is whether the powers under Schedule 7 to the Terrorism Act 2000 can be used in this way or whether there are in place sufficient safeguards to prevent them from being exercised in such a manner. 80. The court notes at the outset that the senior police officer referred to in section 44(4) of the Act is empowered to authorise any constable in uniform to stop and search a pedestrian in any area specified by him within his jurisdiction if he, considers it expedient for the prevention of acts ) The significance of the restriction on the use of Schedule 7 powers to ports of entry should not be misunderstood. As the respondent has acknowledged, there are 245m passenger movements through United Kingdom ports every year. All are potentially subject to this power. Moreover, although the percentage of travellers who are subjected to the 74. It is to be noted, however, that the applicants complaint that the interference with his right to respect for his private life was not in accordance with the law was confined to what he claimed was the ineffectiveness of the judicial remedies available. In particular, he argued that an essential guarantee in the form of It is suggested that the privilege against self incrimination does not arise in relation to the exercise of Schedule 7 powers. The premise on which this is based appears to be that those stopped and questioned under Schedule 7 would be unlikely to answer without there being in place the prospect of prosecution if they refused to As I have explained, this normally requires that four questions be addressed: (a) (b) is the legislative objective sufficiently important to justify limiting a fundamental right? ; are the measures which have been designed to meet it rationally connected to it? ; (c) (d) do they strike a fair balance between I would allow