Olympic Airlines SA was wound up on the direction of the Athens Court of Appeal on 2 October 2009. Since then, the main liquidation proceedings have been in progress in Greece. These latter proceedings must be winding up proceedings. The appellants are the trustees of the companys pension scheme. Olympic is the principal employer in the scheme and the only employer currently participating in it. Under the rules of the scheme, it must be wound up upon the liquidation of Olympic Airlines. Upon its winding up, a deficit was ascertained of (in round numbers) 16m, which Olympic is bound to make good under section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995. On 20 July 2010, the trustees presented a winding up petition against the company in England on the ground that it was unable to meet this liability. The size of Olympics deficiency means that they are unlikely to recover much. The question at issue on this appeal is what connection must a foreign company have with the United Kingdom to entitle an English court to wind it up, if its centre of main interests (or COMI) is in another member state of the European Union. Article 3 of the Regulation provides as follows: Article 3 International jurisdiction 1. Where the centre of a debtor's main interests is situated within the The text of the Regulation is largely derived from the Convention on Insolvency Proceedings which was opened for signature in Brussels on 23 November 1995, but failed for want of a sufficient number of signatories. The Convention had been the subject of an authoritative commentary by Professor Miguel Virgos and M Etienne Schmit. At para 71, the Report commented on the resultant definition as follows: 71. Place of operations means a place from which economic activities are exercised on the market (ie externally), whether the said activities are commercial, industrial or professional. The emphasis on an economic activity having to be carried out using human resources and goods shows the need for a minimum level of organization. For example, in the case of the Greek insolvency proceedings, it is understood to mean a place of operations through which the debtor carries out an economic activities on a non transitory basis, and where he uses human resources or goods to carry out the economic activities. The decisions of the courts belowThe Chancellor considered that to be economic an activity did not have to amount to external market activity: [2013] 1 BCLC 415. The Court of Appeal (Moore Bick LJ, Sir Stephen Sedley and Sir Bernard Rix) overruled him: [2014] 1 WLR 1401. 62. Article 2(h) of the Regulation defines the term establishment as designating any place of operations where the debtor carries out a non transitory economic activity with human means and goods. I do not think that this can sensibly be read as requiring that the debtor should simply be locatable or identifiable by a brass plate on a door. The fact that that definition links the pursuit of an economic activity to the presence of human resources shows that a minimum level of organisation and a degree of stability are required. This suggests that what is envisaged is a fixed place of business. It follows that, conversely, the presence alone of goods in isolation or bank accounts does not, in principle, satisfy the requirements for classification as an establishment. It refers to the character of the economic activities. They must be activities which by their nature involve business dealings with third parties. As the Virgos Schmit Report suggests, the activities must be exercised on the market (ie externally). I am inclined to think that the same point was being made by the Court of Justice when it observed in Interedil that the activities carried out at the relevant premises were not