that prints). The issue in this appeal is: what are the statutory consequences if the fingerprints of a defendant have been taken in a police station in Northern Ireland by an electronic device for which the legislation required approval from the Secretary of State, when such approval has never been given? In particular, is any evidence which makes use of the control fingerprints thus taken inadmissible in any subsequent court proceedings? Article 61 of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (the Northern Ireland Order) sets out the powers of the police to take fingerprints without consent. These powers are exhaustively defined; otherwise prints may only be taken with consent see article 61(1) and, in England and Wales, section 61(2). The cases where prints may be taken without consent have been varied a little from time to time and do not need to be set out seriatim here. One of the principal cases, however, was and is where a person is in police detention having either been arrested for a reportable offence, or charged with, or informed that he will be reported for, such. Another is where he has been convicted of such It is a common law rule that evidence which has been unlawfully obtained does not automatically thereby become inadmissible. That has been clear since at least the decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Kuruma v The Queen [1955] AC 197, where the defendant was charged with unlawful possession of ammunition which had been found on him as a result of an unlawful search, carried out by a policeman of insufficient seniority to make it. The position was summarised by Lord Fraser, with whom all other members of the House of Lords agreed, in Fox v Chief Constable of Gwent [1986] AC 281, 292A as follows: It is a well established rule of English law, which was recognised in R v Sang, that (apart from confessions as to which special considerations apply) any evidence which is relevant is admissible even if it has been obtained illegally. It is clear that this inclusive rule of relevant evidence extends equally to evidence created by an unlawful process as it does to existing material uncovered by unlawful process; the recording in Khan is an example of the former. Lord Goddard CJ said this at p 203: In their Lordships opinion the test to be applied in Mr McMahon is therefore right to say that a breath specimen may be adduced in evidence against a defendant not only when the result constitutes the very offence of driving with excess alcohol but also where it is simply some part of the evidence relied on to prove an offence with different components, such as driving when unfit through drink. That more flexible approach does not necessarily mean that failure to comply with statutory provisions may not have far reaching consequences. It may sometimes yield the conclusion that the inevitable consequence is total invalidity. It was common ground that a valid indictment was a pre condition to a valid Crown Court trial. That was the outcome in R v Clarke and McDaid [2008] UKHL 8; [2008) 1 WLR 338, where the question was whether the failure to sign an indictment nullified the ensuing trial. Since at the time of the 1933 Act the signature was taking the place of the previously existing endorsement of the bill by a Grand Jury, the answer was inescapable, if inconvenient: the signature validated the indictment in the same way as the Grand Jurys decision previously had done. The statutory provisions there in question were sections 1(1) and 2 and other biometric data. There appeared at first to be some limited support for the appellants contentions in an explanatory note which accompanied the proposed insertion into the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 of section 61(8A) requiring type approval of electronic fingerprint readers. That amendment of the 1984 Act would have been achieved through section 78(7) of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001, had that subsection ever been brought into force. The explanatory note to that subsection (number 234) read as follows: Subsection (7) provides that where fingerprints are taken electronically, the device used must have type approval from the Secretary of State. This is to ensure that the device will produce images of the appropriate quality and integrity to be used for evidential purposes. However, the other background material shown to this court demonstrates that the purpose of the proposal for type approval was not principally the protection of the individual against risk of conviction on inaccurate evidence. The concern was much more closely related to the needs for the technology to work properly so that investigations could proceed confidently, for compatibility between police forces, both domestic and foreign, and for uniform machinery for search and comparison. The House of Lords Select Committee on Science