Section 92(1) of the Trade Marks Act 1994 (the 1994 Act). The appellants are a limited company and two individuals connected with its management. No trial has yet been held, and the Crown case remains at this point a matter merely of allegation, which may or may not be proved. What is alleged is that the defendants are engaged in the bulk importation and subsequent sale of goods such as clothes and shoes. The goods, or many of them, are said to bear what appear to be the trade marks of well known brands, such as Ralph Lauren, Adidas, Under Armour, Jack Wills, Fred Perry or similar. They were thus sold, bearing the trade mark, without the consent of the owner of the mark. The causes of the non authorisation of sale might be, it is said, various. Some garments might deliberately have been made by the factories in excess of the number of garments permitted by the registered trade mark owner, so that the balance could be sold for their own benefit. Those are not exhaustive of the possibilities. A significant portion of the remainder of the goods are, however, ones where there had originally been an authorisation to be made, whether by subcontract, licence or otherwise, but whose sale had not been authorised by him. These latter various types of goods are described by the appellants as goods appearing on the grey market. It is common ground that neither the indictment nor the way the Crown puts its case distinguishes between these various different provenances. That led to submissions that the indictment would turn out either to be bad for duplicity or to be misleading, and at risk of producing verdicts which it was difficult to interpret. Both the trial judge and the Court of Appeal (Criminal Division) rejected that submission. At a preparatory hearing in the Crown Court, they advanced a submission that 1 The appellants reading of paragraph (b) is, by contrast, strained and unnatural. It does not simply reach back to (a) but to the general words of the section which precede it. It requires one to read sign in (a), which is incorporated into (b), as which bears a sign, so applied, or at least as such a sign has been applied to the goods (without the consent of the proprietor) which is the central component of the offence under (a). This is simply not a possible construction of section 92(1). There is no difficulty, on the ordinary (or literal) reading of the Act, in seeing what the reference back to the sign described in the immediately preceding paragraph (a)(b) means. Nor can it be suggested that the plain reading of paragraphs (a, (b)) and (c) of the same Act gives rise to absurdity. It may readily be agreed that the expression such as is described in paragraph (1)(a) is a sign which is identical to, or likely to be mistaken for, a registered trade mark. So called grey market goods are caught by the expression. Signs (or trade marks) having any of the provenances described in para 5 above are squarely within this description. It follows, they contend, that they are not, when it comes to paragraph (2), goods which bear such a mark. In support of their contention that such a distinction was plainly intended, the appellants referred to observations made by Lord Nicholls and Lord Walker in R v Johnstone [1993] AC 593, in which they argued that the distinction between counterfeit goods and greymarket goods was clearly intended. No doubt it was. But there is not suggested to be any point at which Parliament, or any individual speaker, confronted the suggested difference between fake goods (b) It is an offence, subject to subsection (3) below, for a person (a) to apply a mark identical to or nearly resembling a registered trade mark to goods, or to material used or intended to be used for labelling, packaging or advertising construction goods; or (b) to sell, let for hire, or offer or expose for sale or goods bearing such a mark, or (c) to possess in the course of a business goods or (d) to use material bearing a mark with a view to doing any of the things mentioned in paragraphs (i) to (c), when he is not entitled to use the mark in relation to the goods in question and the goods are not connected in the order of trade with a person who is so entitled. (l) The appellants are correct that, in the context of goods which a proprietor voluntarily puts into the European single market with his trade mark attached, section 12 of the 1994 Act, transposing article 7 of Directive 89/104/EEC, has the effect that further objection to the use of the mark is limited to special cases, such as changes or impairments to the mark. Where it applies, this concept of exhaustion means that there is no infringement of the trade mark as a matter of civil law, and thus no criminal offence. But this sheds no light on the correct construction of section 92. That is not because of the consequentialist arguments pressed on us by the Crown. It is doubtful that (absurdities or impossibilities apart) difficulties in assembling evidence can ordinarily affect the construction of a criminal statute. Moreover some of the supposedly adverse consequences of such a construction which put before us in the case of the Act set before us were not the result of a change in the wording of the section, but rather of the inversion of the word order of the words, which the appellants say is the effect of The 1994 Act does not deprive the defendants of any proprietary right in the trade marks attached to the goods which they have bought. The most it does is to regulate their use or the manner of their disposal of the goods, which is permitted under the second paragraph of article 1 in the general interest, which must include a general interest in the protection of trade marks. That is a perfectly legitimate balance to draw between the rights of the