Nowadays the butchering of animal carcases in the food industry across the EU is carried out in many instances not by traditional hand butchering but by machines. These can do the job more economically, but they are less accurate than skilled human butchers. The machines often leave a significant amount of meat on the bone. With a view to making use of this residual meat on animal and poultry carcases, in the 1970s machines were developed that would crush the carcase bones and residual meat The recitals to the Regulation include the following: Whereas: (2) Certain foodstuffs may present specific hazards to human health, requiring the setting of specific hygiene rules. This is particularly the case for food of animal origin, in which microbiological and chemical hazards have frequently been reported. (9) The principal objectives of the recasting are to secure a high level of consumer protection with regard to food safety, in particular by making food business operators throughout the EU subject to the same hygiene rules as food businesses in the United States. (10) The The judge referred, at para 61, to the wording of point 1.15 of Annex I to the Regulation. In his view the words and thus to in that provision indicated that there had to be a causal link between the loss or modification of the muscle fibre structure and the elimination of the characteristics of fresh meat. Furthermore, he did not consider that this wording could be construed to mean that any diminution, however minor, of those characteristics but rather that there must be a significant diminution in those characteristics The CJEU addressed the reformulated questions in the following way at paras 41 to 43: 1. It must be stated at the outset that the definition of the concept of mechanically separated meat set out in point 1.14 of Annex I to regulation no 853/2004 is based on three cumulative criteria which must be read in conjunction with one another, namely (i) the use of bones from which the intact muscles have already been detached, or of poultry carcases, to which meat 50. At paras 51 to 54 of its judgment the CJEU compared and contrasted the definition of MSM in point 1.1 of Annex I to the Regulation. At para 52 it said that classification as meat preparations within point 1 1.15 of products which, like that at issue in the main proceedings, satisfy the criteria for [MSM] is excluded by the definition there set out. Disregarding their other characteristics, such products consisting in fragmented meat would be capable of coming only within the concept of minced meat within the The CJEU at para 41 of the judgment of the CJEU and the discussion at paras 42 and 43 concerning the cutting point. There is an extended discussion in the main judgment at paras 66 to 85 regarding the third criterion for MSM set out in para 41. According to the evidence before the judge, the Newby process was applied to pork meat left on bones after the initial stage of butchery of the carcase (ie after the de boning phase) and to chicken meat left in the initial phase of removal of The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal by the FSA in relation to the question whether the product of the first stage of Newbys process should be categorised as MSM. The court held that the judgment of the CJEU made it clear that it should be so categorised. The lead judgment was delivered by Lloyd Jones LJ (as he then was), with whom Beatson and Moylan LJJ agreed. In reaching his view regarding the interpretation of the notion of the cutting point For the court gave permission to this appeal to this case dated last court it was said that it did not involve the use of bones from which the intact muscles have already been detached or poultry carcases, to which meat remains attached. I should add that to the extent that there may be an intact muscle left on a chicken carcase after removal of the breast or on a pork bone after the removal the prime cuts of pork, it may well be that the process would involve the cutting of intact muscles within the qualification created by the 14: removing meat from flesh bearing bones after boning or from poultry carcases. On this appeal the focus has been on the proper characterisation of the products of the Newby process after stage one, which take the form of strips of meat removed from bones. It is now common ground that these products meet the first two criteria for categorisation of MSM for the purposes of point 1.14 as set out by the CJEU at para 41 of its judgment. The issue, therefore, Mr Mercer pointed out that, according to the evidence, it occasionally happens that chicken carcases will be subjected to Newbys process without the breasts first being removed. With respect to the judge, that is not a plausible interpretation of the CJEUs judgment. In describing what happens with the mechanical removal of chicken breasts the CJEU used the word cutting, whereas the later evidence adduced by Newby for the resumed proceedings in the national court shows that what happens is a combination of cutting at the edge of the chicken 1 Court of Court of the European Court of Justice (CJEU) on the application of the definition in point 1.14 to Newbys products. The first part of Mr Mercers submission, as regards the division of responsibility between the CJEU and the national court making a reference under article 267 TFEU, is correct. Mr Mercer seeks to meet this aspect of the CJEUs judgment with the submission that the CJUUs role on a reference is to give an authoritative ruling on the interpretation of EU 14 is also relevant for the purposes of the TSE Regulation, which together with the Regulation forms part of the EU regime governing the production of food from animals. That interpretation is necessary to secure the protection against the spread of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies associated with ruminant animals which is the primary object of point 1.14: see paras 57 to 59 of the CJEUs judgment. The definition of the term MSM in the meaning of point1.14 in Annex I to the Regulation 14. This appeal turns on the proper interpretation of the CJE