UK The Immigration Rules were amended so as to require a foreign spouse or partner of a British citizen or a person settled in this country to pass a test of competence in the English language before coming to live here (the Rule). Clearly, for a variety of reasons, some people would find this much harder to do than others. These included many people from India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, three of the 1. In 2007, the Government first floated the idea of requiring a pre entry test for foreign spouses and partners, in Securing the UK Border: Our vision and strategy for the future (March 2007). In the chapter on Wider, tougher checks abroad, under the heading Targeting areas of abuse, this made suggestions about Marriage to partners from overseas protection for the vulnerable and the skills to integrate (para 1): The applicant must provide specified evidence that they (a) are a national of a majority English speaking country listed in paragraph GEN 1.6; (b) have passed an English language test in speaking and listening at a minimum of level A1 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages with a provider approved by the Secretary of State; (c) have an academic qualification recognised by UK NARIC The Immigration Directorate Instruction Family Migration, Appendix FM section 1.0a, Family Life (as a Partner or Parent): 5 year Routes (August 2015) deals with Exceptional Circumstances or Compassionate Factors in section 14. Entry clearance officers must in every case go on to consider whether there may be either exceptional circumstances which would make the refusal of entry clearance a breach of article 8 because [it Aguilar Quila v The Netherlands (2015) 60 EHRR 789 (para 107), which draws together the applicable principles. The jurisprudence of the court draws a distinction between cases where migrants who have been lawfully settled in a country for a long time face deportation or expulsion and cases where an alien is seeking admission to a host country. The former entails the possible breach of the The right of partners to come here is one of the most important rights in international human rights law. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 proclaimed that The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the state (article 16.3). The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 1966 translated this into a binding obligation in exactly the same words (article 23). Both ), to use the term used by Maurice Kay LJ, benign. All the stated aims are, in reality, aspects of the first, which is to assist the partners integration into British society at an early stage. This is undoubtedly an important aim. It must be beneficial for a newly arrived partner to be able to go into a shop and buy groceries and other necessities, to say hello to the neighbours, to navigate public transport, Sir David Keene dissented in the Court of Appeal. He concluded that the pre entry test had not been shown by any substantial empirical evidence to be no more than is necessary to achieve the legitimate aim (para 59). The post entry test was achieving its object. (b) A rational connection between the measure and the aim of promoting integration and cohesion? In the opinion of Dr Helena Wray, the The appellants complain that the requirement discriminates against some people in the enjoyment of their article 8 rights. On its face, it is directly discriminatory on grounds of nationality. I agree with Ms Karon Monaghan QC, for Liberty, that it is not possible to use the protected characteristic as a basis for holding that their situations are relevantly different. They are all in the same situation of wanting to come I agree with Lady Hale (a) that there is no basis for striking down rule E ECP 4.1 in Appendix FM to the Immigration Rules (b) that the guidance, because of the narrowness of the exceptional circumstances for which it allows, may result in a significant number of cases in which peoples article 8 rights will be breached. But I am not persuaded that the The appellants fail to show that the rule itself is an unjustifiable interference with article 8 rights. At paras 17 to 20 of her judgment Lady Hale sets out the current guidance given to officials on how they should consider exceptional circumstances under E ECP 4.2(c) in Appendix FM of the Immigration Rules. From the emphasis which she has supplied to certain passages in that guidance, it is clear that she takes issue with (a 1 in Appendix FM to the Immigration Rules (the Rule), set out in paras 12 13 above, is lawful. In this case, the Rule interferes with the article 8 rights of men and women in this country whose partners abroad may be impeded in their attempts to join them in the United Kingdom. The limits on article 8.1 rights in this connection were helpfully summarised by Lady Hale in The second Requirement is that the Rule is not inherently improbable and unreasonable. As Lady Hale explains in paras 43, 44 and 47 of her judgment, the appellants have collated detailed expert assessments, including facts and opinions, from Dr Jordan, Dr Wray and Dr Charsley. In their view, there is real reason to doubt the likely efficacy of the Rule in achieving each of the six aims. They I agree therefore that (a) the Rule has a legitimate purpose, namely the six aims referred to above, which is sufficiently important to justify interfering with the lives of persons in the UK who wish to be united here with partners who are currently abroad, (b) there is plainly