The claimants are investment trust companies (ITCs). They are closed ended investment funds constituted as limited companies: that is to say, the companies were established with a fixed number of issued shares and a term date when the company would be wound up and the assets distributed to the shareholders. They have now reached their term dates and are in winding up. The claims of three of In early 2004, when the Claverhouse litigation began and was publicised, the Managers of the F&C Trust and the M&G Trust made claims to the Commissioners under section 80 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 for refunds in respect of VAT accounting periods from 2001 to 2004. Claims were not made in relation to earlier accounting periods because of the three year limitation period imposed The ITCs brought proceedings against the Commissioners in which they sought payment of the amounts which had been paid by them to their managers, to the extent that they had not been recovered under the statutory scheme established by section 80 or otherwise: in other words, the amountsWhich the managers could not claim because any claim would be time barred, and the managers had not paid to the Commissioners but had retained and VDP Dental Laboratory NV v Staatsecretaris van Financin (Joined Cases C 144/13, C 154/13 and C 160/13) [2015] STC 1133. The case concerned claims for the repayment of a charge which had been levied under Italian legislation which was inconsistent with EU law. A preliminary issue before the national court was whether the claims As the judge noted, however, no payment was made by the Lead Claimants to the Commissioners. Nor were the Managers simply a conduit or, in legal terms, an agent for payment of tax to the Commissioner. On the mistaken premise that the supplies were taxable, [2014 8cccCA v It [2013 the Court of Justice in Elida Gibbs Ltd para 67). It would be unwise to attempt in this appeal to arrive at a definitive statement of the circumstances in which the enrichment of a defendant can be said to be at the expense of the claimant. Nevertheless, in view of the uncertainty which has resulted from the use of vague and generalised language, this court has a responsibility to establish more precise criteria. Some observations of a general It should be emphasised that there need not be a loss in the same sense as in the law of damages: restitution is not a compensatory remedy. For that reason, some commentators have preferred to use different terms, referring for example to a subtraction from, or diminution in, the claimants wealth, or simply to a transfer of value. But the word loss is used in As explained earlier, the at the expense of requirement is not satisfied merely by the direct receipt of a benefit. That requirement will not normally be satisfied where the provision of the benefit was merely an incidental or collateral result of his expenditure. As Lord Clyde put it in Banque Financire, in the passage cited at para 44 above, the plaintiff should have sustained a loss through the provision The Lord President illustrated his opinion with an illuminating example: One man heats his house, and his neighbour gets a great deal of benefit. It is absurd to suppose that the person who has heated his house can go to his neighbour and say Give me so much for my coal bill, because you have been warmed by what I have done, and I did not intend to give you a present of There are, on the other hand, cases in which the court has referred to reality in a different sense. The case of Banque Financire, as explained in some of the judgments, is an example. The claimant had entered into a refinancing arrangement involving the loan of a sum of money to the manager of a holding company, which he in turn lent to a Turning to the issue raised in the present case, the only English authority cited in argument which contains a discussion of the at the expense of question in relation to taxation is the decision of the Court of Appeal in Kleinwort Benson Ltd v Birmingham City Council [1997] QB 380. The case concerned a claim by a bank for restitution of money which it had paid to a Returning, then, to the question whether the unjust enrichment of the Commissioners was at the expense of the Lead Claimants, the answer is in the negative. That follows from a number of considerations. In particular, there is no question of the transactions being sham or involving an artificial step, or of their comprising first transfer did the first transfer as a matter a second transfer as second transfer did 7) Except as provided by this section, the Commissioners shall not be liable to credit or repay any amount accounted for or paid to them by way of VAT that was not VAT due to them. (2A) Where (a) as a result of a claim under this section by virtue of subsection (1) or (lA) above an amount falls to be credited to a person The argument proves the legislation section 80(7 to make a claim under section 80 a claim which, it is agreed, can only be made by a supplier where crediting the supplier would unjustly enrich him. The possibility of unjust enrichment (in a non technical sense) arises because the supplier normally recovers from his customers the output tax for which he accounts to the Commissioners. Section 80 12. It follows that a member state may, in principle, oppose a claim for the reimbursement of a duty unduly paid made by the final consumer to whom that duty has been passed on, on the ground that it is not that consumer who has paid the duty to the tax authorities, provided that the consumer who, in the final analysis, bears the burden