The question for this court is therefore whether a product patent, the teaching of which enables the skilled person only to make some, but not all, of the types of product within the scope of the claim, passes the sufficiency test where the invention would contribute to the utility of all the products in the range, if and when they could be made The name given to this type of hybrid gene structure, containing the murine constant region and all or part of the human variable region is the Reverse Chimeric Locus. Once created in the mouse genome, it operated as the code for the production of a variety of hybrid antibodies which, when the B cells which contain the relevant coding are isolated and removed The question of whether there is a relevant range of mice for the use of the Reverse Chimeric Locus in the hybrid gene structure of the murine constant region genes. The fact that there is such a range is the foundation for the agreed identification of the legal issue before this court, since the question, as framed above, makes no sense if there is not Sufficiency Enablement across the Range An invention which consists of new generally applicable may contribute to a principle of general application, but such distinctions as there may be do not call for examination here. Where the invention enables patentees to make a particular product, and they seek a monopoly over the making and exploitation of the product (which is what a product claim The question in this case is not whether the EPC is part of the law or, perhaps, a legitimate development of it. Rather the answer is to be found in the European and UK authorities on sufficiency, which were subjected to intensive review both by the Court of Appeal and in submissions to this court. A chronological review of the relevant decisions of 1. Lord Pannick QC, Adrian Speck QC and Justin Turner QC for the respondent relied on three EPO cases which, they submitted, supported the Court of Appeals analysis in the present case. The earliest, Genentech I/Polypeptide expression (T 292/85) ECLI:EP:BA:1988, Unilever/Detergents was one of the EPO cases cited above where the requirement that the specification should enable all embodiments across the whole range of the claim was firmly asserted. Reference was also made to the decision of the German Federal Supreme Court in Dipeptidyl Peptidase Inhibitoren (X ZB 8/12). It was about In the Novartis II decision, the Court of Appeal and the House of Lords held that the specification must enable the invention to be performed to the full width of the monopoly claimed. Apart from the holding that sufficiency is to be tested as at the priority date (a rule which is not in dispute in this appeal) the case is of importance for present Both the Court of Appeal and the respondent in the present case placed great emphasis on the reference by Lord Hoffmann to a common principle by which products in a class may share the same beneficial effect, as if this was separate and additional to the case of a general principle which enables a whole class of products to be made. But the law of sufficiency, in the Reflection upon those European and UK authorities yields the following principles: i) The requirement of sufficiency imposed by article 83 of the EPC) in the case of a product claim is to ensure that the contribution to the art made by the patentee is such as will, coupled with the common general knowledge existing as at the priority date, be sufficient to Lord Briggs says, at para 5, that the legal question that arises is whether a product patent, the teaching of which enables the skilled person to make some, but not all, of the types of product within the scope of the claim, passes the sufficiency test where the invention would contribute to the utility of all the products in the range, if and when they could be made. Having reviewed various decisions of the Technical Boards of Appeal of the EPO and of the domestic courts, the Court of Appeal turned at para 250 to the application of the law to the instant case. This involved, inter alia, a consideration of the nature and extent of the contribution to the art that the disclosure of the invention had made, It is common ground between the parties, established in the authorities, and acknowledged in Lord Briggs judgment (see for example para 56(vi)), that an invention may disclose a principle of general application. It is when it comes to characterising this claim, determining what its scope is, and deciding whether it is enabled across that full scope that the argument arises. 4. Given that I am alone in my disagreement with my colleagues, I can see little to be gained by a lengthy exegesis on the issues arising in the appeal. As