The Administrative Court of the Republic of Lithuania on 12 December 2012 issued a judgment on three appeals. These appeals concern requests made for the surrender under Part 1 of the Extradition Act 2003 of three persons wanted to serve sentences imposed upon their conviction in other member states of the European Union. The requests relating to the appellants Mindaugas Bucnys (Bucn The Framework Decision was adopted by the Council of the European Union (EU) in its pre Lisbon Treaty form. The Framework Decision starts with recitals, stating inter alia: (5) The objective set for the Union to become an area of freedom, security and justice leads to abolishing extradition between member states and replacing it by a system of surrender between judicial authorities. Traditional cooperation The first two questions identified in paragraph 3 above are inter related. In a number of domestic authorities, the Ministries analysis has been accepted: Enander v Governor of Brixton Prison [2006] 1 CMLR 999, where Openshaw J thought that any further inquiry would be attended with considerable practical difficulty, it would be fraught with uncertainty, and would deprive the Act of its efficacy and cannot, in my judgment, have been 38. Status and interpretation of Framework DecisionFor reasons explained in this Court in Assange [2012] 2 AC 471, paras 208 217, the Framework Decision falls outside the scope of the European Communities Act 1972. Hence in my judgment it must be open, the grant of the certificate under section 2(7) notwithstanding, to this appellant to raise on this appeal (as he could have done before the District Section 2(7) of the 2003 Act does not take the Ministries further. Rather, it represents an additional safeguard, of the sort which Lord Hope in Office of the Kings Prosecutor, Brussels v Cando Armas [2006] 2 AC 1, para 24 contemplated that Parliament might have included. The safeguard would require any judicial authority requesting surrender to be an authority with general authority to issue domestic arrest warrants7 1. Section 212 deals with alerts issued at the request of an authority of a category 1 territory under article 95 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 (OJ L 239, p 19). The history of section 212 is described in para 258 of my judgment in Assange [2012] 2 AC 471. Article 95 reads: 95. Data on persons wanted for arrest for The second ground of challenge to the requests therefore fails, and I turn to consider whether the Ministries can be regarded as judicial authorities for the purposes of issuing the requests in issue on these appeals. That involves showing that the provision is ambiguous or obscure and that there are ministerial statements which, viewed in the context of the Parliamentary material as a whole, provide a clear answer as to its meaning. I The Framework Decision is not a treaty. It is a subsidiary measure, which fell to be agreed by unanimity within the scope of the powers conferred by, as well as in accordance with the procedures defined by, the pre Lisbon Treaty on European Union. So viewed, I do not consider it correct to describe the Framework Decision as a treaty at all. It must be interpreted as such: see the passages That the Court of Justice has consistently held, the Community treaties established a new legal order for the benefit of which the states have limited their sovereign rights, in ever wider fields, and the subjects of which comprise not only member states but also their nationals (see, in particular, the judgment in Van Gend en Loos (Case 26/62) [1963] ECR 1). The essential characteristics The Ministry of Justice has by law to be and is firmly founded on a judicial decision by the responsible court that such a warrant is appropriate. (para 98) This postulates a situation in which the ministrys decision to issue a conviction European arrest warrant has been preceded by a domestic court process. The key question is whether the issuing authority can in such a case be regarded as a judicial authority for the purposes The picture which emerges in relation to Republic from communications to the Crown Prosecution Service by the Vice Minister of Justice is that the Ministry the Ministry only issues any European arrest warrant after conviction on the initiative of either (a) a court or (b) an authority responsible for executing the sentence. It does so then after examination of all the documents to ascertain that valid grounds exist for issuing such a warrant The Ministry of Justice after receiving the Prison Department request is under rule 12 required not only to consider for itself whether the formal pre conditions listed in rule 4 are satisfied but (it appears) also to take into consideration the severity and type of the offence and the . convicted persons personality. Assuming again that this connotes an element of discretion, even in the case of a conviction, as to whether it issues a warrant Turning to the position of the European arrest warrant issued by the Head of the International Cooperation Unit of the Estonian Ministry of Justice, it is now known that the Viru County Court on 10 February 2011, on learning that Lavrov was living in the United Kingdom, sent a request to the Ministry of justice to issue a warrant to give effect to the domestic arrest warrant that it had itself issued on 9 February 2010 1. THE DECISION TO ISSUE The Estonian authorities do not have a formal practice guide concerning the instigation of European arrest warrant proceedings or the subsequent steps to be taken. The Code of Criminal Procedure may have been amended since 2006 it seems clear that article 507(21) 2 and (2) must mean mean mean at some point. However, Mr Jones points to other information in the form of the 3. i) The European arrest warrant issued in respect of