Acts by the Secretary of State or by departments in Westminster do not come within the purview of section 24 of the 1998 Act. And section 24, among other things, provides (in subsection 1(a)) that a Minister or Northern Ireland department has no power to make, confirm or approve any subordinate legislation, or to do any act, so far as the legislation or act is incompatible with any of the rights under the first protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). By the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 (Commencement No 8 and Transitional and Transitory Provisions) Order 2017) and the Social Security and Child Support Maintenance (Transition and Transit) Order 2016 (Transitional Provisions), and the Work and Pensions (Welfare Reform) Order 2018 (Transitions and Transitions) Order, it is claimed by the Attorney General for Northern Ireland to refer to this court what is claimed to be a devolution issue. The reference is made under paragraph 34 of Schedule 10 to the Northern Ireland Act 1998. The basis for the Attorneys reference is his assertion that the universal credit provisions in question breach articles 8, 12 and 14 of the ECHR and article 1 of the first treaty to be applied to the EHR and are therefore invalid by the provision of the Act. In material part it provides:The Attorney General of Northern Ireland may refer to the Supreme Court any devolution issues which is not the subject of proceedings. By virtue of paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 1, it provides that a devolved issue is a question whether a purported or proposed exercise of a function by a Northern Ireland Minister or a Department of the Northern Irish department is, or would be, invalid by reason of the provision. Article 4 provides that until such date as appointed by the Prime Minister, a function conferred on a Minister is not a function. It also provides that any statutory provision relating to social security and child maintenance may be exercised by Northern Ireland ministers or a department otherwise entitled to such a power. Section 1(2) stipulated that such an Order in Council could make regulations relating to such payments. By the welfare reforms that Northern Ireland is to be effected, the power to exercise such a provision on the basis of disagreements over welfare Ireland issues used entirely power to post view that welfare Ireland is not to be exercised, the political parties could not operate welfare orders On the basis that the powers to exercise the power of the Secretary Of State could not post view it could not be exercised on basis of disagreement over welfare issues, it would not be possible for the Secretary to exercise one of the functions conferred on him by the Act to make regulations to make welfare payments in Northern Ireland. The welfare reforms were deemed the effective of the I would therefore be remiss if I did not refer to the fact that the Attorney is seeking to refer to this court a reference on a devolution issue. Paragraph 2 of Schedule 10 to the 1998 Act provides that a devolved issue shall not be taken to arise in any proceedings merely because of any contention of a party to the proceedings which appears to the court or tribunal before which the proceedings take place to be frivolous or vexatious. The section comprehends, therefore, not only the enactment of subordinate legislation but also acts which may be ancillary or even incidental to that enactment. In Attorney General for Northern Irelands Reference [2019] UKSC 1, this court held that where precisely the same issue as the Attorneys application for a reference arose in pending proceedings in Northern Ireland, it was not appropriate to accept the reference. And it is, of course, the case that this issue will come before this court on appeal from a decision of the English Court of Appeal (R (C) v Secretary of State for Work and Pensions [19] EWCA Civ 615; [2019) 1 WLR 5687) which is due to be heard on 20 22 October 2020. It will be open to the Attorney to apply to intervene in that appeal. It would therefore not be appropriate to allow the Attorney’s application to be referred to this Court on the basis that the introduction of Universal Credit is not compatible with the ECHR. This leads to the second reason for refusing to enter a reference. This court must retain a discretion whether to deal with a reference in relation to the actual introduction of the measure. The gravamen of the charge is not to the mode of introduction of a measure but to its impact. It is not that a means of identifying the areas where it is to be introduced sequentially was incompatible. The avowed incompatibility is said to depend on its being introduced in a manner that is incompatible with the Convention right. Conclusion I would therefore refer the Attorney for Northern Ireland Reference to paragraph 1(b