The United Kingdom was the first country in the world to introduce compulsory motor insurance. It originated with the Road Traffic Act 1930, which was part of a package of measures to protect accident victims, including the Third Parties (Rights Against Insurers) Act 1930. The latter Act entitled a person to claim directly against the insurer where an insured tortfeasor was insolvent. It was subsequently amended by statutory instruments under the European Communities Act 1972 to reflect the terms of the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Motor Insurance Directives 2000/26/EC, 2005/14/EC and 2009/103/EC. The statutory regime has become more elaborate and more comprehensive since 1934, but the basic framework has not changed Ms Cameron initially sued Mr Hussain for damages. The proceedings were then amended to add a claim against Liverpool Victoria Insurance for a declaration that it would be liable to meet any judgment obtained against Mr Hussain. District Judge Wright dismissed that application and entered summary judgment for the insurer. Ms Camerons response was to apply in the Liverpool Civil and Family Court to amend her claim form and particulars of claim so as to substitute for Mr Hussain the person unknown driving vehicle registration number Y598 SPS who collided with vehicle registration numbers KG03 ZJZ on 26 May 2013. In her judgment, the court had a discretion to permit an unknown person to be sued whenever justice required it. Justice required it when the driver could not be identified, because otherwise it would not be The Civil Procedure Rules have been regularly torts its use. But the possibility of a much wider jurisdiction was first opened up by the decision of Sir Andrew Morritt V C in Bloomsbury Publishing Group Plc v News Group Newspapers Ltd [2003] 1 WLR 1633. The claimant in that case was the publisher of the Harry Potter novels. Copies of the latest book in the series had been stolen from the printers before publication and offered to the press by unnamed persons. An injunction was granted in proceedings against the person or persons who have offered the publishers of The Sun, the Daily Mail and the Daily Mirror newspapers a copy of the book Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix by J K Rowling served with defendant before defendant have serve by defendant before the court. The court generally acts in personam. Although an action is completely constituted on the issue of the claim form, for example for the purpose of stopping the running of a limitation period, the general rule is that service of originating process is the act by which the defendant is subjected to the courts jurisdiction: Barton v Wright Hassall LLP [2018] 1 WLR 1119, para 8. In Dresser UK Ltd v Falcongate Freight Management Ltd [1992] QB 502, the Court of Appeal held that, for the purposes of the Brussels Convention (the relevant provisions of the EU Regulation are different), an English court was seised of an action when Service of originating process was required by the practice of the common law procedure courts long before statutory rules of court were introduced following the Judicature Acts of 1873 and 1875. The Court of Appeal has held that where proceedings were brought against unnamed persons and interim relief was granted to restrain specified acts, a person became both a defendant and a person to whom the injunction was addressed by doing one of those acts: South Cambridgeshire District Council v Gammell [2006] 1 WLR 658, para 32. In Bloomsbury Publishing Group, for example, the unnamed defendants would have had to identify themselves as the persons in physical possession of copies of the book if they had sought to do the prohibited act, Porter v Freudenberg [1941] 1 All ER 231 arose out of a road accident caused by the alleged negligence of a driver who was identified but could not be found. He was thought to have been insured, but it was impossible to identify his insurer. The plaintiff was held not to be entitled to an order for substituted service on another insurer who had no relationship with the driver. The case is authority for the proposition that while an insurer may be authorised by the policy to defend an action on behalf of his assured, he was not a party in that capacity and could not take any step in his own name. The principle stated in the Rules of the Supreme Court in the revision of 1962 as RSC Order 67, rule 4(3). This Porter v Freudenberg was not a statutory policy that the public should be protected against defaulting solicitors. It gave effect to a basic principle of natural justice which had been the foundation of English litigation procedure for centuries, and still is. So far as the Court of Appeal intended to state the law generally when it observed in Abbey National Plc v Frost that service need not be such as to bring the proceedings to the defendants attention, I consider that they were wrong. In the first place, the Road Traffic Act scheme is expressly based on the principle that as a general rule there is no direct liability on the insurer, except for its liability to meet a judgment against the motorist once it has been obtained. No doubt Parliament assumed, Mr Williams QC, who appeared for Ms Cameron, submitted that this result was inconsistent with the Sixth Motor Insurance Directive 2009/103/EC, and that the Road Traffic Act 1988 should be read down so as to conform with it. Mr Williams' submission was pressed with much elaboration, but it really boils down to two points. First, he states that the Directive is not a requirement to use the drivers sub liability against liability as he is quite states quite states that they are not required to use it against liability. If, like the driver of the Micra, the motorist was not insured under the policy, he will be liable to indemnify the insurer under section 151(8) of the road Traffic Act. Secondly I would allow the appeal, set aside the order of the Court of Appeal, and reinstate that of District Judge Wright. I assume (without deciding) that article 18 requires a direct right of action against the insurer in respect of the underlying wrong of the person responsible and not just a liability to satisfy judgments entered against