The Immigration Rules provides for the grant of leave to enter to the child of a parent who has been admitted to the UK as a refugee. The issue in this case is whether the Para extends, or should be treated as extending, to a child for whom a family member has taken parental responsibility under the Islamic procedure known as Kafala (described in the agreed statement of issues as a process of legal guardianship akin to adoption). The facts are fully set out in the judgment of Davis LJ in the Court of Appeal. The following is a sufficient summary for present purposes. i) AA was born in Somalia on 21 August 1994. Her father was killed in the mid 1990s. Her family was torn apart by events in Somalia. ii) An elder sister, Ms A, married Mohamed on 10 January 2001. In 2002 she came home to find that he, her daughter Fadima, and her step daughter Amaani had been abducted. Her husband had in the meantime escaped from his abductors and had gone to live elsewhere in Mogadishu Para 352D was introduced in October 2000. Para 309A is in Part 8 of the Immigration Rules relating to Family Members (in the particular group relating to children). Its present form dates from 2003. Paras 310 316C (referred to in the opening words) form a group of Paras under the general heading Adopted Children, dealing with the general requirements for entry as an adopted child, unconnected with circumstances which might lead to an asylum claim. We were given little information about the thinking behind these rules, either in the present form, or as introduced in 2000. Before 2000 a more flexible approach had been applied. In R v Immigration Appeal Tribunal Ex p Tohur Ali [1988] 2 FLR 523, the Court of Appeal considered rule 50 as it then stood, under which parent was defined as including an adoptive parent, where there has been a genuine transfer of parental responsibility on the ground of the original parents inability to care for the child The court, by a majority, held that this expression was not confined to adoption under a legally recognizable adoptive process. For that it is necessary to turn to the interpretation provision, Para 6, which defines parent as follows: a Mr Gill has referred us to a number of international instruments which call for a broad approach to the protection of the interests of children. As he rightly says, the best interests principle is now, in appropriate areas of law, recognised both by domestic and international law (see ZH(Tanzania) v Secretary of State for the Home Department [2011] 2 AC 166). Without in any way detracting from the importance of the principles affirmed in those instruments, I do not find it necessary to review them in any detail. On this aspect, I cannot usefully add to the reasoning of Davis LJ said in the Court of Appeal. LJ concluded: In response to similar submissions in MK (Somalia) (above), Maurice Kay Do these documents establish or evidence an obligation of customary international law that is positively protective of de facto adopted children? In my judgment they do not. Whilst there is a perceptible concern that the concept of family, in the context of family reunion, should not be resistant to social and cultural change, Mr Gill is unable to point to any specific obligation that is prescriptive of the national approach to de facto For these reasons, which substantially follow those of the Court of Appeal, I would dismiss this appeal. I would add one comment. Mr Gill submits that the discrimination in this case arises on a number of grounds under article 14, including race, religion and nationality, and also (as he puts it in his printed case) other status (the statuses of being a child of a refugee and/or of being