The facts behind this appeal can be stated briefly. In 2010 Mr Thomas Holden was a mechanical fitter employed by the appellants, R & S Pilling, who traded as Phoenix Engineering (Phoenix). He was the owner of a car and held a motor insurance policy (the Policy) with the respondents (UKI). On 11 June 2010 Mr Holdens car failed its MOT because of corrosion to its underside. On the following day, he asked his employer, Phoenix, if he could use the loading bay in its premises to carry out work on his car in the hope that he could enable it to pass its MOT i) Domestic provision: the Road Traffic Act 1988It has, since 1930, been a statutory requirement that a driver has third party liability insurance in respect of the use of his or her vehicle on the road and it is a criminal offence if one does not. Section 145 of the RTA, which like section 143 falls within Part VI, sets out the conditions which the policy of insurance must satisfy. It provides, so far as relevant: (1) In order to comply with the requirements of this Part of this Act, a policy to be in force in the following conditions. (2) Subject to subsection Having regard to the statutory requirements and the terms of the certificate, the Policy must be construed so that the third party cover meets the requirements of the RTA. The parties are agreed on that and they are plainly correct, because this can be done in this case without resort to rectification. The Court of Appeal (the Master of the Rolls, and Beatson and Henderson LJJ) allowed Phoenixs appeal ([2017] EWCA Civ 259; [2017] QB 1357). The Court, recognizing that the wording of clause 1a of the policy booklet was inadequate and that the Policy booklet had to be read together with the certificate Three questions arise in relation to the arguments about the interpretation and application of clause 1a. First, one must ask what is extent of the insurance cover which section 145(3)(3)( Anda property) requires. Section 151 imposes a duty on insurers to satisfy judgments obtained against persons insured against third party risks up to the maximum at the relevant time of 1m (now 1.2m). The section applies to judgments relating to a liability which section 144 requires to be covered by insurance and it is a liability covered by the terms of the policy (subsection (2)(a)). In deciding whether the Case Directive, case law of the CJEU has demonstrated a need for Parliament to reconsider the wording of section 145(3)(a) of the RTA to comply with the Directive. The accident in that case occurred when an agricultural tractor, which had a drum with a herbicide spraying device mounted on its back, was stationary but its engine was running to drive the spray pump for the herbicide. A landslip, which was caused by among other things the vibrations of the tractor engine and the spray, carried the tractor away, causing it to fall down terraces and crush a worker who was working on the vines below. Both Judge In Vnuk and Andrade, the CJEU held that the requirement for third party motor insurance cover in Irish road traffic legislation did not comply with the Directive. A motor insurance policy, which was a contract between private persons, reflected the Irish legislation. The CJEU found that the terms of the insurance policy were not to be disapplied, notwithstanding the failure to provide the cover which the Directive required; the person disadvantaged by this failure could instead seek compensation from the member state (para 56). The CJU held that in the case of a third party insurance policy which was not provided at the side of the insured person In this case, there is an apparent contradiction between the terms of clause 1a, if those words are given their ordinary meaning, and the promise in the certificate (para 9 above) that the Policy satisfies the requirements of UK law, including the RTA. The necessity for corrective construction arises from the fact that the terms to meet the legal requirements, which the Chief Executives certificate vouched, have not been expressed in the insuring clause. There is no doubt as to what those terms are as the statutory provision provides them. If, as is the case, the express terms of the Policy in some I find my discussion of the Romford case in paras 42 and 43 above. The English case law which interprets use in the RTA as having the use of makes good sense in the context of vehicles which have been left on a road or in a public place, where members of the public are likely to encounter them, but less sense if applied without qualification to vehicles located on private property. In ordinary language one would not speak of a person who is conducting substantial repairs to a stationary vehicle as using