The events leading to Mrs Robinsons accident began when DS Neil Willan spotted Mr Ashley Williams apparently dealing drugs in a park in the centre of Huddersfield. He did not attempt to arrest Williams immediately, as Williams was young and physically fit, and Willan thought that he was unlikely to In the Court of Appeal, Hallett LJ considered that the Caparo test [Caparo Industries plc v Dickman [1990] 2 AC 605, 617 618] applies to all claims in the modern law of negligence (para 40). In consequence, [t]he court (1) CaparoThe proposition that there is a Caparo test which applies to all claims in the modern law of negligence, and that in consequence the court will only impose a duty of care where it considers it fair, just and reasonable to do so on the particular facts, is mistaken. As Lord Toulson ( above) The existence or non existence of a duty of care in the present case is not a question of whether it is fair, just and reasonable. It is normally only in a novel type of case, where established principles do not provide an answer, that the courts need to go beyond those principles in order parpar 97) Therea matter the common law does not generally impose liability for pure omissions (para 97). This omissions principle has been helpfully summarised by Tofaris and Steel, Negligence Liability for Omissions and the Police (2016) 75 CLJ 128: In Turning to consider specifically the position of the police (helpfully discussed in Purshouse, Arrested development: Police negligence and the Caparo test for duty of care (2016) Torts Law Journal 1), Lord Toulson explained in the case of Michael at paras 29 35 that the police owe As previously explained reasoning by Lord Toulson in Michael (para 37), the House of Lords accepted the concept of a duty of care in cases concerning private individuals and bodies, except in cases where there has been an assumption of responsibility. As explained earlier, the common law does not normally impose liability for omissions, or more The issue in Hill was whether the police generally owe a duty of care to individual members of the public, in the performance of their investigative function, to protect them from harm caused by criminals: a question to which, on the principles established prior to Anns and subsequently reinstated in Stovin v Wise, Gorringe and Fourthly, reliance was placed on the House of Lords decision in Hill. He cited first Lord Keiths confirmation of the liability of the police for the negligent infliction of personal injuries in accordance with the general law of tort. Nothing in his reasoning is inconsistent with the existence of a duty of care to avoid causing physical harm in accordance 1. Reliance was however placed by counsel on an earlier part of the judgment, in which the court considered the cases on which the judge below had based his approach Hill, Elguzouli Daf, Brooks, and Smith v Chief Constable of Sussex Police and explained why, in its view, The argument that most cases can be equally analysed in terms of either an act or an omission, sometimes illustrated by asking whether a road accident is caused by the negligent drivers act of driving or by his omission to apply the brakes or to keep a good lookout, does not reflect the true nature and purpose of the distinction, as explained above (3) Did the police officers owe a duty of care to Mrs Robinson? It was not only reasonably foreseeable, but actually foreseen by the officers, that Williams was likely to resist arrest by attempting to escape. In those circumstances, it was reasonably foreseeable that if the arrest was attempted at a I have read with benefit the judgments prepared by Lord Reed and Lord Hughes in this case. Having watched the excellent CCTV recording and compared it with the judges findings, I confess to the same doubt as Lord Hughes about the judges finding of negligence. However, like Lord Hughes and bearing in mind the evidence accepted by the judge as 4 A relevant part of the discussion of the question of whether or not a duty of care owed by the police to those it prosecutes is to be found on prior authority, including Hill v Chief Constable of West Yorkshire [1989] AC 53, Elguzouli Daf v Commissioner of Police for the Metropolis [ The House decided the case not on the basis of any general principle derived from the cases of Hill, Calveley and Elguzouli Daf, and not on any general distinction between either physical and psychiatric injury or acts or omission. But the starting point for the Houses consideration of the case was that Mr The question of lawThe general question of importance in this appeal is when the police do or do not owe a legal duty of care to individuals in the course of performing their public functions of investigating and preventing crime. It may have become a convenient shorthand to express the decisions of the House of Lords and this court in In part 4 And police, the principle in Hills case would have detrimental effects for law enforcement. Whilst focusing on investigating crime, and the arrest of suspects, police officers would in practice be required to ensure that in every contact with a potential witness or a potential victim time and resources were deployed to avoid the risk 75. I do not find it possible to approach Hill and Brooks as cases that turned on their own facts. In my opinion however it is clear from Lord Steyns opinion, read as a whole, that he was laying down a principle of public policy that was to be applied generally. That principle is The second public policy consideration which I would emphasise in the present context is the desirability of safeguarding the police from legal proceedings which, meritorious or otherwise, would involve them in a great deal of time, trouble and expense more usefully devoted to their principal function of combating crime. This was a point Second, there is no firm line capable of determination between a case of omission and of commission. Some cases may fall clearly on one side of the line, and Hill may have been one of them. But the great majority of cases can be analysed in terms of either. Barrett v Enfield London Borough Council Mr Willan is entitled