What happens if the warrant specifies only the original sentences, but after it has been issued they have been aggregated and their totality reduced? Lukasz Zakrzewski, was convicted on four occasions in Poland of various offences of dishonesty or violence. All of these sentences of imprisonment were initially suspended, but all of them were subsequently activated either by the commission of further offences during the period of probation which followed conviction, or by breaches of the probation terms. On 10 December 2003, he was convicted by the District Court in Grudziadz of assault and robbery committed on separate occasions in February 2003, for which he received a combined sentence of 14 months imprisonment. The warrant specified the sentence passed on each occasion. He was sentenced to a further ten months imprisonment for each of the two offences. On 18 March 2004, he had been sentenced by the same court of two distinct offences of theft, and received a further combined sentence for each offence, and sentenced him to a total of twenty-two months imprisonment, for the offences of assault, robbery and dishonesty. On 28 May 2004, the warrant specified that he had committed a further offence of theft. On 14 January 2005, he returned to the district court of Grudzadz, which convicted him of theft again, and gave him a total sentence of twenty six months imprisonment on each offence. On 21 May 2005, the District court of Swiecle sentenced him again to twenty-six months for the offence of stealing, and issued a warrant for his arrest. On 24 February 2010, It has often been pointed out that the contents of the warrant are critical to the operation of the scheme of both the Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 and the United Kingdom Act. Recital (10) of the Framework Decision records that the mechanism of the European arrest warrant is based on a high level of confidence between member states. Or, as Lord Phillips put it in Assange v Swedish Prosecution Authority (Nos 1 & 2) [2012] 2 AC 471, para 79, the safeguard against the inappropriate issue of an EAW lies in the process antecedent to the issue of the EAW. In summary, he held that the information in the warrant must relate to the current operative sentence and not to earlier sentences which have been subsumed in an aggregated order. In the present case, that is the aggregate order. The validity of a warrant under Part 1 of the Extradition Act 2003 depends on whether the prescribed particulars are to be found in it, and not on whether they are correct. To fall within the definition of a Part 1 warrant and be capable of initiating extradition proceedings, it must contain the statements and information required by section 2 of the Act, which reflect the mandatory contents provided for by article 8 of the framework Decision. The same applies to the corresponding provisions of section 65(2)(b) and (c). If the warrant contains the prescribing particulars and these disclose an extradition offence, the court must extradite the defendant, unless one of the limited exceptions specified in the Act applies. The exceptions to the otherwise mandatory extradition of the defendant are dealt with by sections 10 to 21 59. Ms Cumberland submitted that an argument of the kind which succeeded before the District Judge can be raised, but not with reference to section 2 of the 2003 Act. She said that the proper approach was to deal with it as an abuse argument, and this ties in with the appellant's third ground of appeal, to which I shall come in a few moments. I agree with this statement, subject to four observations. The first is that the jurisdiction is exceptional. The court's task jurisdiction, if you like is to determine whether the particulars required by section 2(4) have been properly given. It does not extend to a debatable analysis of arguably discrepant evidence, nor to a detailed critique of the law of the requesting state as given by the issuing judicial authority. It may, however, occasionally be necessary to ask, on appropriately clear facts, whether the description of the conduct alleged to constitute the alleged extradition offence is fair, proper and accurate. The clearest statement of the principle is to be found in the decision of Sir Anthony May, President of the Queens Bench Division of the High Court, in Criminal Court at the National High Court of First Division v Murua [2010] EWHC 2609 (Admin), which has been followed by the high Court on a number of occasions. Murua was an accusation case. The warrant alleged serious terrorist offences involving danger to life and concealment of identity. Both of these were significant aggravating factors under Spanish law, warranting imprisonment upon conviction for up to 48 years. However, at the trial in Spain of seven other defendants for the same conduct, the prosecution had accepted 4. The prosecution of extradition proceedings on a warrant containing prescribed particulars which are (or have become) incomplete is capable of being an abuse of process, but only if the information omitted is material to the operation of the statutory scheme. The short answer to this contention in the present case is that the particulars of the sentence in the warrant, although no longer complete, were not wrong. This answer was effective to explain the contents of the warrant. It should be noted that the issue of a composite sentence does not invalidate any of the individual sentences. This is because the Regional Court of Lodz supplied further information about the effect of the aggregation order in the following terms: The consequence of the aggregate sentence having been passed is that it is the case that the sentences imposed for each of the offences are not to be enforced separately, but replaced with the new composite sentence that is to be imposed in respect of the convict. In such a case