In circumstances in which at the time of a divorce a spouse, say a wife, is awarded capital which enables her to purchase a home but later she exhausts the capital by entry into a series of unwise transactions and so develops a need to pay rent, is the court entitled to decline to increase the order for the husband to make periodical payments to her so as to fund payment of all (or perhaps even any) of her rent? Or is it the husband’s prerogative to make such payments to the wife on the open ended basis, namely during their joint lives until her remarriage or further order in the interim. The husband and wife are each aged 52. They were married in 1987. They had one child, a son, now adult. The wife is a qualified beauty therapist. In the early years of the marriage she worked, self employed, in that capacity. In 1996 the wife unfortunately suffered a late miscarriage, which precipitated a long period of painful gynaecological difficulties for her. In 2000 the husband left the on i) i) ii) iii) iv) v) for a fixed period to be set on her continued receipt of periodical payments and/or for a downwards variation of their amount. Both applications were made under section 31(1) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 (the Act). Section 31(7) provides: In exercising the powers conferred by this section the court shall have regard to all the circumstances of the case, [which] shall include any change in any of the matters to which the court was required to have regard when making the order or the application relates, and (a) in the case of a periodical . order made on or after the grant of a decree of divorce . , the court may consider whether in all the reasons and after having regard to any such change it would be appropriate to vary the order so that payments under the order are required to be made only for such further period as will in the opinion of the court be sufficient to enable the party in whose favour the order was made to adjust without undue hardship to the termination of those payments; The matters to So the Court of Appeal allowed the wifes appeal by varying the order for periodical payments upwards from the annual sum of 13,200 to that of 17,292, backdated to the date of the judges judgment. It refused the husbands application for permission to appeal to it on the ground that his proposed appeal had no prospect of success. The husband filed a notice of appeal to this court. The wife secured permission to do so but, in circumstances which rendered him aggrieved but are no longer relevant, the husbands expression of appeal was not granted likewise but was listed to be heard by the court at the time when it was to hear the wiwes substantive appeal. At the conclusion of the hearing on 1 February 2017 Sir Ernest Ryder gave an impromptu judgment, with which Longmore LJ agreed. In his judgment Sir Ernest said that i) the judge did not give any reason why any part of the trimmed budget, that is the Wifes basic needs budget, should be cut in explanation of why that shortfall should not be met; ii) budget that he, the judge, had accepted in Thorpe LJ said: 32. In any application under section 31 the Applicants needs are likely to be the dominant or magnetic factor. But it does not follow that the respondent is inevitably responsible financially for any established needs. He is not an insurer against all hazards nor, when fairness is the measure, is he necessarily liable for needs created by the applicants financial mismanagement, extravagance or irresponsibility 33. Thus in the present case the wifes failure to utilise her earning potential, her subsequent abandonment of the secure financial future provided for her by the husband, her choice of a more hazardous future in Australia, together with her lifestyle choices in Australia. the need to pay the mortgage all arose from her own choice not to apply the lump sum in discharging the existing mortgage The decision of the Court of Appeal in the matter of whether the wife was entitled to capitalise her entitlement to periodical payments, ie to discharge the order for them upon payment of a lump sum to her in lieu of them pursuant to section 31(7A) and (7B) of the Act. In addressing the question, the court must consider three earlier The Court of Appeal has expressed itself in forceful terms. A spouse may well have an obligation to make provision for the other;