see an article 14 is justified in fact for the treatment of persons in comparable, or relevantly similar, situations. These appeals raise the question whether it was lawful for the Secretary of State to The court has established in its case law that discrimination means treating differently, without an objective and reasonable justification, persons in relevantly similar situations. Article 14 is not confined to the differential treatment of similar cases: Contemporaneously with the Spending Review, HM Treasury published its Overview of the Impact of Spending Review 2010 on Equalities. It set out a five year plan to rebuild the British economy by reducing 26. The policy was subjected to detailed and vigorous scrutiny by both Houses of Parliament, over a period of more than 12 months, during the passage of the Bill through Parliament. That scrutiny was assisted by a number 37. The issue of housing costs for those in temporary accommodation was being considered. In relation to this matter, it is relevant to note the evidence given in these proceedings by Mr Robert Holmes, the Departments section of welfare benefits. It was also understood that child care responsibilities might make it difficult for some single parents to seek work and, by that means, to secure exemption from the cap. Measures were taken to 44. On 16 July 2012 the Benefit Cap (Housing Benefit) Regulations 2012 (SI 2012/2994) (the Regulations) were laid in draft before both Houses of Parliament. Parliament received submissions on 56. In response to a request from this court, counsel also provided the Departments analysis of the data for the period up to March 2014 in respect of single parent households including a child under five years 64. The maintenance of public confidence in the welfare system, so that recipients are not stigmatised or resented, is undeniably a legitimate aim. It is, in the first place, an aspect of 70. Other criticisms of the Regulations focused upon the impact of the cap upon the income of the households most severely affected, such as those of the appellants. Emphasis was placed in particular upon the inclusion 76. The argument developed during and after the hearing of the appeal. Initially, it was contended that the Secretary of State was obliged by section 6 of the Human Rights Act to treat the best interests of children as 83. It is not in dispute that the Convention rights protected in our domestic law by the Human Rights Act can also be interpreted in the light of international treaties, such as the UNCRC, 89. It is firmly established that UK courts have no jurisdiction to interpret or apply unincorporated international treaties: see, for example, J H Rayner (Mincing Lane) Ltd v Department of Trade and 94. The following issues were agreed between the parties for consideration by the Supreme Court: (i) Was the Court of Appeal wrong to have declined to decide whether the benefit cap, as formulated in the 2012 (para 69) Whether or not for this reason, issue (iv) was agreed by the Secretary of State in a form which raised directly the issue of compliance with article 3(1), without overtly questioning 106. Paragraph 6 explains that best interests in this context is a three fold concept: (a) a substantive right, (b) a fundamental, interpretative legal principle, and (c) 113. Lord Dysons reference to this argument (paras 67 75), and to its treatment by the Divisional Court, came immediately after his discussion of article 14 (read with A1P1); he 118. There are examples also in domestic jurisprudence. Lady Hale has referred to the judgment of Maurice Kay LJ in Burnip v Birmingham City Council [2013] PTSR 117, 124. Lord Reed (para 35) refers to a ministerial response in the course of the Parliamentary debate, to the effect that working people on low incomes had to cope with difficult circumstances and live within their means 127. LORD HUGHES: 134. I agree with the judgment and conclusions of Lord Reed and would like him dismiss this appeal. 135. I add only some additional observations in view of the difference 140. The additional argument now formulated before this court and accepted by Lady Hale and Lord Kerr would give article 3 UNCRC the force of domestic English law on the grounds that it bears on the issue of whether 140. Where such discrimination is in question, the margin of appreciation is narrow and proportionality requires not merely that the measure in question pursues a legitimate aim but also that it is necessary: see paras 151. Relying upon paragraph 6 of the UN Committees General Comment, the principal submission of Mr Wise QC was that the article 3 obligation required (a) careful consideration of how many childrens best interests, still 155. LADY HALE: 156. The total amount of benefit to which a couple or a single person is entitled is capped at a prescribed sum, irrespective of how much they would otherwise be entitled 163. The final regulation which is relevant for our purposes is that which provides, in effect, that the housing benefit payable for what is now (following a recent amendment) to be termed specified accommodation is disreg NS is concerned that the local childrens services authority will consider her children to be at risk of harm if they have contact with their father. There is a long history of sexual abuse and domestic violence within 180. The prejudicial effect of the cap is obvious and stark. It breaks the link between benefit and need. Claimants affected by the cap will, by definition, not receive the sums of money which 187. The appellants have both suffered domestic violence and abuse and Mrs NS might well have to flee to expensive temporary accommodation while wishing to retain the family home should her husband once again try to assert his control 190. No one can seriously doubt that these are legitimate aims which would probably be supported by most of the population. The question, however, is whether these reasons for bringing in the cap can justify the 198. Against this, both the appellants and the interveners argue that these expectations are simply unrealistic in the case of the families of lone parents and victims of domestic violence, upon whom the policy has 205. As CPAG point out, the Government accepted in its grounds of resistance to the claim that the aim of incentivising claimants to work may be less pertinent for those who are not required to work ( 2011 UKSC 18, [2012] 1 WLR 1545, at para 22, the fact that the test is less stringent than the weighty reasons normally required to justify sex discrimination does not mean that 216. The Secretary of State makes two main arguments against taking article 3(1) of UNCRC into account in deciding whether this discrimination can be justified. The first is that the UNCRC, like other 224. The Governments contention was that the long term shift in welfare culture, or reversing the impact of benefit dependency on families and children, would be beneficial to children in the longer run. This may well 230. Relief 230. The claimants seek both declaratory relief and an order quashing Part 8A of the Housing Benefit Regulations. The latter would not be appropriate, given that it is not suggested in 237. It was said that the only cases in which the court would pronounce on an issue of international law are those where it is necessary to do so in order to determine rights and obligations under domestic law, so 248. In Re McKerr Lord Steyn cast doubt on the applicability of the fundamental principles set out in International Tin Council so far as they governed the position in relation to human rights treaties, arguing that the 253. It is perhaps noteworthy, however, that other commentators have been critical of the courts adherence to the dualist theory of international law, especially in relation to human rights conventions see, for instance, Br and test this measure to meet this test. 262. The particular species of discriminatory impact here is on women who, by reason of their position as lone mothers, claim to suffer a disproportionate interference with their