Broome Park, formerly the home of Field Marshal Lord Kitchener of Khartoum, is a substantial country estate near Canterbury, with a large 17th century Grade I listed house (the Mansion House) at its heart, and a much smaller house, Elham House, nearby. Prior to 1967 Broome Park had been in common ownership. In In 1981, the promoters of the Regency Villas development decided to transfer the ownership of the Mansion House to a new owner. On this occasion however, it was decided to use a freehold rather than leasehold structure for the transfer. Thus, by a transfer dated 11 November 1981 (the 1981 Transfer) Gulf Investments transferred Elham House to Elham house Developments Ltd, another member of The first claimant (and first respondent in this court) is the freehold owner of Elham House. The remaining claimants are individual timeshare members of the RVOC. They sue upon their own behalf and on behalf of all other members. They claimed a declaration that they were entitled, by way of easement, to the free use of all the sporting or recreational facilities The Court of Appeal held that the Facilities Grant in the 1981 Transfer was not a grant of rights, but a grantuage to the use of the facilities in the Park. It was expressed to be conferred not merely upon the Transferee, but upon its successors in title, lessees and occupiers of what was to become a timeshare development in multiple occupation. Although by 1981 the Mr Tim Morshead QC for the appellants described the Facilities Grant as one which conferred the right of free access for the Regency Villas timeshare owners to a high class leisure complex providing recreational and sporting attractions otherwise being provided by the Park for paying members of the public. He submitted that such a grant of rights was incapable of amounting to an easement or eas The main controversy in the present case arises because the Facilities Grant conferred recreational and sporting rights, the enjoyment of which may fairly be described as an end in itself, rather than a means to an end (ie to the more enjoyable or full use of the dominant tenement). The origin of the controversy lies in the Roman law doctrine that a ius spatiandi cannot constitute a Evershed MR. I have cited the above passages because they demonstrate the following points. First, and contrary to the main submission for the appellants in the present case, the Court of Appeals conclusion did not depend upon the rights granted being essentially private in nature. On the contrary, they were described as broadly similar to those enjoyed by public over well known parks and gardens in At first sight, the condition that the rights must be capable of forming the subject matter of a grant appears more apposite for testing the validity, as easements, of rights said to have been acquired otherwise than by grant, for example by prescription. But it has come to be a repository for a series of miscellaneous requirements which have been held to be essential characteristics of an eas It may be argued that, as the courts below have held, the recreational and sporting facilities in the Park could be used by the RVOC timeshare owners without taking possession or control of the Park. The grant of the facilities rights, particularly in relation to the golf course, must be assumed to carry with it a step in right of the dominant owner to manage and maintain the There is nothing inherently incompatible with the recognition of a grant of rights over land as an easement. The only essential requirement (imposed to prevent land being burdened to an extent contrary to the public interest) is that the servient owner has undertaken no legal obligation of that kind to the dominant owner. True it is that, in the same document, the original grantor undertook a personal maintenance obligation to My analysis thus far demonstrates, as it did to the courts below, that the Facilities Grant exhibited all the well settled essential characteristics of an easement or easements, viewing each of the four characteristics (and the sub characteristics of the fourth) separately. But it still leaves open the wider question whether the grant for timeshare owners of comprehensive rights to the use and enjoyment of recreational and sporting facilities The essence of the disagreement between the judge and the Court of Appeal which has led to the cross appeal may be summarised as follows. The judge regarded the Facilities Grant as, in substance, the grant of a single easement to use all such recreational and sporting facilities as might be provided from time to time within the leisure complex (including the Mansion House). At para 44 of his reserved The Court of Appeal is decisive the leisure the cross appeal is decisive a cross appeal The Court of appeal was reluctant to extend the facilities granted to the Regency Villas timeshare owners over the grounds of the Mansion House. This reluctance was apparently because of a concern about the effect of the law relating to perpetuities upon what, on one view, might be regarded as the grant of Lord Briggs accepts that the grant of a right to use a neighbours swimming pool could not, in my opinion, be a servitude. He recognises that it would be a new species of easement, but sees it as justified by the need to accommodate new ways of enjoying the use of land and as a natural development of the recreational easements widely recognised in the common law I find this difficult to accept. Having accepted that an easement requires no more than sufferance on the part of the servient owner, he dismisses the appellants reliance on Lord Scotts observations in Moncrieff, by reference to what he deems the factual findings of the courts below that some less attractive but still worthwhile use could be made of the facilities in those circumstances. I also find it difficult to see the limits of the majoritys approach. It seems to have been assumed that the disused airfield could be made suitable for the limited use to be made of it by the appellants by no more than mowing. On that basis Russell LJ was prepared to proceed on the assumption (p 24C D) that the right to use the The appellants submissions support this limited view. I note three points in particular. Firstly, they rely on the ordinary construction of the words of the grant which are expressed in the present