in the UK, since when he lived in this country on his own. He received income support until late 2007, when it was decided that he should not have been receiving it, on the ground that he did not have the right of residence in the UK. Shortly before this judgment was to be delivered, counsel for the appellants informed us of an Opinion which had been delivered by Advocate General Wathelet in Jobcenter Berlin Neuklln v Alimanovic (Case C 67/14) [2016] 2 WLR 208, which they contended assisted their arguments. We decided to await the judgment of the Court of Justice in that case. Judgment was given on 15 September 2015, and the parties have had the opportunity to make written submissions as to its effect on these appeals. The arguments have changed somewhat over the course of the two sets of proceedings, but the essential issue raised now is whether the provisions and In 2004, ten countries, including Poland, acceded to the EU pursuant to the Treaty on Accession 2003 (the 2003 Accession Treaty). By virtue of articles 10 and 24 of the Act of Accession forming the second part of the Treaty, existing member states, including the UK, were accorded, by way of derogation, certain transitional powers. So long as these provisions were in force, they enabled a host member state to exclude Polish nationals from freedom of movement rights unless they had been working in that state for an uninterrupted period of 12 months following accession. Those powers included a right to derogate in relation to the free movement of workers within the EU, which was then governed by Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 (the 1968 Regulation), and a derogation in the right of residence for family members of nationals (known as A8 nationals) of eight of the ten new member states. The 2004 DirectiveThe right of EU nationals to reside in On 30 April 2006, the EEA Regulations came into force in the United Kingdom. They were, as the Explanatory Note explains, intended to implement the 2004 Directive. Article 24.1 states that all Union citizens residing on the basis of this Directive in the territory of the host member state shall enjoy equal treatment with the nationals of that member state, albeit subject to such specific provisions as are expressly provided for in the Treaty and secondary law. Articles 30 and 31 are concerned with protecting the rights that are the subject of the Directive (and the width of their ambit is emphasised by article 15.1). Article 30 deals with notification, and article 31 deals with Procedural safeguards, including access to judicial redress procedures. Article 14.3 states that an expulsion measure should not be the automatic consequence of recourse to the social assistance system. Regulation 14 provides that a qualified person is entitled to remain in the UK so long as he is so qualified. Section VII of the Housing Act imposes duties on local housing authorities in relation to homeless people. The duty extends, under section 193, to providing them with accommodation where they are involuntarily homeless and in priority need unless they are not eligible for assistance. The issues raised on these appeals are: The first argument raised by Mr Drabble QC, who appears with Ms Leventhal on behalf of Ms Mirga, is that, in the light of her right to respect for her private and family life, under article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, she cannot be removed from the UK, as accorded by article 21.1 of TFEU, cannot be limited or cut back in the way that the Income Support Regulations seek to do, namely by restricting her rights to income support because she has not achieved a continuous 12 month period in registered employment. The second argument raised, by Mr Coppel QC and Ms Rogers, 2014 (Case Bre) rejected (which was published by the Third Chamber in P P) after the Court of Appeal (which decided the case of Mr Samin v the Council of England and Wales) on the point above that the Councils refusal to provide Mr Saman with housing assistance under Part VII of the Housing Act constituted discrimination on grounds of nationality prohibited by article 18 of TFEU, because such assistance would have been accorded to a citizen of the UK, or a qualifying worker from another member state, who was otherwise in the same position as Mr Samon. Accordingly, Mr Drabbles first line of argument on behalf of Ms Mirga is that the right of residence in the UK is not to be exercised simply to enable a national of one member state to obtain social assistance. It seems to me that these arguments face real difficulties. First, its ambit is limited to the scope of the Treaties In Dano, the applicant and her son were Romanian nationals living in Germany (where the son had been born), and she had been issued with an unlimited residence certificate. She and her children were refused subsistence and social allowances, and when they challenged this, the Bundessozialgericht referred three questions to the Court of Justice. In para 46 of Brey, the Chamber had referred to the right of nationals of one member state to reside in the territory of another members state without being employed or self employed as being not unconditional. The Grand Chamber ruled, at para 63, that article 24 of the 2004 Directive: must be interpreted as not precluding legislation of a member state under which nationals of other member states who are in a situation such as that referred to in article 14(4)(b) of that Directive are excluded from entitlement to certain special non contributory cash benefits within the meaning of article 70(2) of Regulation No 883/2004, Mr Drabbles second argument in both appeals is that the determination of the authorities and the courts and tribunals below in the case of both Ms Mirga and Mr Samin was flawed because no consideration was given to the proportionality of refusing each of them social assistance bearing in mind all the circumstances of their respective cases, and in particular that the authority or tribunal concerned failed to address the burden it would place on the system if they were to be accorded the social assistance which they sought. As I understood his contentions, Mr Drabble did not suggest any discrepancy in the domestic regulations unsurprisingly, as they were clearly intended to implement the EU instruments. The only possible remaining issue in relation to this first set of arguments could be whether (i) the provisions of the Income Support Regulations, when read together with the A8 Regulations and the EEA Regulations, complied with the requirements of the 2003 Accession Treaty and the 2004 Directive. The thrust of the argument was that In Brey, the court stated that the competent authorities should be able when examining the application of a Union citizen who is not economically active and is in Mr Breys position to take into account certain factors. Brey was an unusual case, because the applicant had been issued with a certificate of residence by the Austrian government, a factor which appears to have played a significant part in the courts thinking, as it was recited in the re formulated question (in para 32) and it is referred to expressly and impliedly in the crucial para 78 of the judgment, and indeed in the final ruling of the Third Chamber (see para 49 above). However, it is not necessary to address that point further, as the reasoning in Brey cannot assist the appellants on the instant appeals, in the light of the subsequent reasoning of the Grand Chamber in