Mr Gibson was convicted of drug trafficking offences on 21 May 1999 and sentenced to 25 years imprisonment. On 29 March 2000 at the confiscation hearing, he was ordered to pay a little over 5.4m; that meant that it had been determined by the judge that his benefit was not less than that sum and that he had assets from which that sum might be realised. He was given 12 months to pay, and the judge fixed the term of six years imprisonment in default of payment. He paid nothing until 4 May 2007, when 12,500 was paid, it would appear via a receiver appointed to realise his assets. A month later, he appeared before the magistrates for consideration of a warrant of commitment. The magistrates deducted seven days from the six year term in default, to take account of the recent part payment. As at that time, interest had lifted the net sum outstanding, allowing for the part payment, to 8.1m. Subsequently, later in 2007 and in 2011, two further realisations were achieved by his receiver, which produced payments of 12, 500 and 65,370. The prison authorities, and through them the Secretary of State for Justice, In common with other confiscation statutes, the Drug Trafficking Act referred enforcement by committal to prison to the Magistrates Court. But this apparently fairly simple provision has to be considered in its place in the much more complex statutory scheme under which the magistrates powers of commitment to prison are made applicable to confiscation orders. By the time of the 2007 commitment proceedings in this case, section 9 provided: 9. Powers and duties of Crown Court in relation to fines and forfeited recognizances. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, if the Crown Court imposes a fine on any person or forfeits his recognizance, the court may make an order (a) allowing time for the payment of the amount of the fine or the amount due under the recognizANCE was in 19982 of this Act, sections 139(1) to (4) and 140(1)( to (3) of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 (powers of Crown to enforce fines). (b) directing payment of that amount by instalments of such amounts and on such dates as may be specified in the order; (c) [applicable only to the order] Section 9 provided that the powers of the Many of the difficulties which have beset the present case arise out of the fact that the enforcement of confiscation orders is thus achieved by applying to them statutory provisions which were not designed for them. In particular, the process of referrals just described has the effect that a confiscation order is treated for enforcement as if it was a fine imposed by the magistrates. That refers one on to the 2000 Sentencing Act, by which a fine which has been imposed by magistrates is by section 140(1) treated as a fine, and thus so is a magistrates fine. But there is a very important difference in practice as between fines imposed by Magistrates and fines (and confiscation measures) imposed by a Crown Court. In the case of the former, the Magistrates do not fix a default term when imposing the fine. Instead, they approach the matter of imprisonment in default only after default has occurred. By then, of course, it will be known whether the default is total or partial, and the term imposed under the warrant of commitment can be, and ordinarily is, adjusted accordingly, thus in effect giving credit for part payments made before the commitment process is undertaken. Section 79(1)(2) of the by the magistrates court, since section 79(1) specifically says that on full payment the default term ceases to have effect whether or not the person has been committed to prison, thus providing for the case permitted by section 77(2) where a warrant of commitment has been issued, but not yet executed. He points to the plain intention, gathered from section 10(1), that interest is to be paid, and to the fact that in the case of a criminal who is in default of payment of the principal sum outstanding. The plain purpose of the various statutory provisions for interest, including section 10 of the Drug Trafficking Act, is, he submits, that interest has to be treated for any enforcement purpose as added to the confiscation order and is expressly made part of the amount to be recovered from [the defendant] under the seizure order. This section is in more expansive form than its predecessor, section 32 of the Powers of Criminal Courts Act 1973. This construction is also necessary to make sense of section 140(3) of the 2000 Sentencing Act, to which the courts below were not referred. That definition section provides: imprisonment means pass a sentence of impose imprisonment or fix a term of imprisonment for failure to pay any sum of money, For these reasons we would allow the appeal. Since section 79(2) was plainly not drafted with confiscation, or for that matter Crown Court fines, in mind, the reference is adequately explained by the orthodox case of the magistrates first issuing a warrant for distress and only subsequently fixing the default term for non payment; in such a case the reference to the sum outstanding at the time the period of