1. This appeal raises a question of interpretation of a clause in a pension scheme trust deed which defines the phrase Retail Prices Index for the purposes of indexation of pensions, and which allows the trustees of the pension scheme to adopt a replacement of the official measure of price inflation, such as the Consumer Prices Index (the CPI), when the official body responsible for compiling the RPI (now the Office of National Statistics) has not discontinued it. Barnardos, the well known charity who is the sponsoring employer, argues that the clause empowers the trustees to adopt another index which they consider to be a more appropriate measure of inflation, whether or not the Retail prices index (the RPI) continues to be published. Representatives of the members of the scheme, who are concerned that the adoption of the CPI as the index would over time reduce the benefits which they receive from the scheme to protect the value of members pensions against price inflation. The trustees adopt a neutral stance on the question. Lord HODGE: (with whom Lady Hale, Lord Wilson, Lord Sumption and Lord Briggs agree) 1. The background is the recognition that there is a need for private pension schemes to provide some form of indexations of pensions to protect against the value The trustees of the pension scheme sought a ruling on the meaning of the Definition by a claim under Part 8 of the Civil Procedure Rules. Mr Brian Green QC presented the case on behalf of Barnardos. I mean no disrespect to his elegant submissions if I summarise them briefly. First, he explained that the scheme had been subject to the CIRs discretionary approval. The arrangement for CIR approval was superseded by the Finance Act 2004 but the requirement for that approval explained the repeated reference in the scheme, including in the definition of RPI in rule 53, to Approval. The phrase, he submitted, contained pointers which supported his interpretation. It was not disputed that the trustees had to exercise discretion in deciding to adopt a replacement. There might be no room for the exercise of discretion if the official body which published the RPI replaced it with another index. But it is not clear whether that is so. Similarly, the requirement that the adopted replacement did not prejudice the trustees choice of replacement pointed to a circumstance where there was a possibility that the regulators would not be able to approve the trustees' choice of alternative. That eventuality was very unlikely. Mr Green submitted that the first sentence of the definition fell to be construed as RPI or any alternative adopted by the trustees. While recognising that the I am persuaded that the judge and the majority of the Court of Appeal were right to conclude that the correct interpretation of the first sentence of the Definition is the first of the options to which Lewison LJ referred and which I have repeated in para 9 above, namely, that the RPI means the contribution which background factual circumstances, which existed at the time when the scheme was entered into but which would not readily be accessible to its members as time passed, can make to the construction of the scheme. In this case, the CIR guidance on approval of schemes, which is contained in the practice note on occupational pension schemes (IR 12 (1979)), forms part of the relevant background. This is relevant background as it means that there was no CIR constraint which might influence the interpretation of a phrase in dispute. The question is whether it did so. As Millett J stated in In re Courage Groups Pension Schemes [1987] 1 WLR 495, 505 there are no special rules of construction applicable to a pension scheme but its provisions should wherever possible be construed to give reasonable and practical effect to the schemes. They must be construed against their fiscal backgrounds: National Grid Co plc v Mayes [2001]1 WLR 864, para 18 per Lord Hoffmann; British Airways Pension Trustees Ltd v Fourthly, I do not derive any assistance from IR 12. Clause 3 of the Deed containing the rules of the scheme stated that the Scheme will be governed by the Rules (including the Appendix) contained in this deed, thereby clarifying that the Appendix was to be seen as part of the rules. Further, rule 32, which prohibited the payment of benefits in excess of the CIR limits, referred to the Appendix as containing a summary of those limits. The rules and the Appendix are intimately related. If there were any inconsistency between the terms of IR 12 on the one hand and the rules and Appendix of the Scheme on the other, the latter must prevail. It may be that the draftsman thought that IR 12 was addressing the initial choice of index when a scheme was first established rather than an alteration of an index during the currency of the pension scheme. But whether or not that is a correct inference, it cannot be doubted that he or she chose to use language in both the Definition and the Register which differed from the wording of the earlier rules in which the draftsm use of the phrase replaced or re basing in the first sentence of the Definition. This is supported by the definition of the same phrase (albeit referring to RPI rather than Retail Prices Index) in the Appendix, which I have set out in para I would dismiss the appeal on the subsisting rights provisions contained in sections 67 and 67A 67I of the Pensions Act 1995. The proviso to rule 46 of the scheme prevents Barnardos from altering the scheme to the prejudice of any pension or annuity then payable under the scheme or any benefit already secured. As a