sett the face transactions (such types post or different MIFs where the MIF also MIF is not present in any of the other payments to the acquirer and merchant, less the MSC. This appeal concerns whether certain rules of the payment card schemes operated by Visa and Mastercard have the effect of restricting competition, in breach of article 101(1) of the Treaty on 4. Four party payment card schemes, such as the Visa and Mastercard schemes, operate in what is described by economists as a two sided market: (i) On one side of the market, issuers compete with each other for the business of customers to whom they will issue cards (the issuing market). (ii) On the other side of this market, the acquirers compete with other merchants to offer acquiring Both the Visa and the Mastercard schemes have been subject to scrutiny by national and European competition authorities and regulators over many years, including in relation to MIFs. The Court of Appeal included a summary of the regulatory background in its judgment: [2018] EWCA Civ 1536; [2019] 1 All ER 903, paras 12 36.580 Commercial Cards (the Mastercard Commission Decision). Mastercard In the CAT proceedings, the CAT decided two issues which are no longer in dispute, namely that: (i) the MIF did not amount to a restriction of competition by object; and (ii) the restriction issue fell to be considered against a counterfactual in which the transactions would be settled at par by default, which was equivalent to a default MIF of zero. The judgments below and their essential The Court of Appeal held that it was bound to follow the decision in Mastercard CJ that the MIFs in issue restricted competition within the meaning of article 101(1). It stated that this was not a decision from which the Court either can or should depart. The restriction of competition identified by the decision is summarised in the Executive Summary, point 2, as follows: The MIF in MasterCards scheme 3. The interchange fee is a common identical cost, borne by all acquirers, that does not influence price competition between acquirers in terms of determining the level of MSCs. 459. The MasterCard MIF not only creates an (artificial) common cost for acquirers and thereby sets a floor for the fees each acquirer charges to merchants. The price floor and the transparency Mastercard appealed against the General Courts decision to the Court of Justice. The Advocate General recommended that the appeal be dismissed. He summarised the Commissions reasoning and conclusion as follows: AG6 In the decision at issue, the Commission considered that the decisions setting the MIF, which it characterised as decisions of an association of undertakings within the meaning of article 81(1) EC, restrict competition between acquiring banks Visa and Mastercard argue that the question whether MIFs that set a floor under the MSC restrict competition has not been settled by Mastercard CJ, but must be determined by a national court by carrying out an in depth evidential examination of its effects, and that this was contrary to the judgment of the Court of Appeal. The issue in the national proceedings was whether the agreement had the effect 2002 MIF(1 TH issues raised and issues raised by Visa and Mastercard in their appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) on the issue of the effect of the MIF on competition in the actual and counterfactual markets. As stated at para 116 of Visas written case: That case concerned the question whether an agreement between a number of Hungarian banks introducing a uniform MIF For these reasons we dismiss the appeal on issue (i). Issue (ii) The standard of proof issueThis ground of appeal is advanced jointly by Visa and Mastercard. They submit that the Court of Appeal erred in law insofar as it concluded that, in relation to article 101(3) TFEU: (i) there is a specific requirement for robust and cogent evidence, which is 81. Visa and Mastercard complain that the Court of Appeal wrongly adopted an unduly onerous standard of proof. They take as their starting point Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 on the implementation of Treaty competition rules (the Modernisation Regulation). The major change effected by the Modernisation regulation was that whereas previously the grant of exemption from the prohibition on agreements which restrict competition had been the exclusive function of the The issue in Eturas, in proceedings where an anti competitive concerted practice was alleged, was whether certain evidence was sufficient proof of a fact which, if established, would trigger a presumption of liability under article 101(1). The passage in the judgment of the Court of Justice at paras 30 32, cited above, was concerned with the specific question whether the dispatch of a message through an electronic system may constitute sufficient evidence to We are unable to accept the submission on behalf of Visa, that in GlaxoSmithKline the evidential basis for the application for article 101(3) which was accepted by the Court of First Instance was almost entirely theoretical and based on economic studies. There is a requirement for detailed, empirical evidence and analysis in order that this evaluative exercise can be carried out. In its The appeal against the Commission decision was dismissed by the General Court in Mastercard GC. In those proceedings, Mastercard had complained that an excessively high burden of proof had been imposed on the applicants in relation to the conditions of what is now article 101(3) TFEU, whereas the Commission had been required to analyse the arguments and the evidence adduced by reference to the balance of probabilities The court notes that the examination of an agreement for the purposes of determining whether it contributes to the improvement of the production or distribution of goods or to the promotion of technical or economic progress, and whether that agreement generates appreciable objective advantages, must be undertaken in the light of the factual arguments and evidence provided by the undertakings in support of the claim. Such an examination may require the nature and specific features of the sector concerned by the agreement First, it is not the case that where the clauses of an agreement have been implemented and their impact on competition can be measured by taking into account the relevant factual developments, including those subsequent to the conclusion of the agreement, which took place before the Commission issued its decision to allow the Commission to demonstrate merely the anticompetitive effects that such clauses are likely to have and, to that end, to make the There is a further and more fundamental reason why the MIT does not assist Visa and Mastercard on the present issue. It is not designed as a substitute for the balancing test as a means of establishing efficiencies and benefits under article 101(3). It is, rather, designed to meet the specific concern that merchants may be vulnerable because they are typically in a poor position to resist consumers who want them to accept cards In its appeal to this court, Visa challenges the decision of the Court of Appeal and argues that Phillips Js analysis of the second condition was correct. As will be explained in greater detail, it maintains, in particular, that the issue was considered and decided, in the manner for which it contends, in Mastercard CJ, particularly at paras 241 and 247. All parties agree that the question as When Commission proceeded on the basis that, in order for the second condition to be satisfied, it was necessary that the consumers who suffered the losses resulting from the restrictive agreement that is to say, the merchants must have those losses offset or counterbalanced by benefits enjoyed by themselves. It is apparent from the foregoing, and perhaps especially from the passages which we have italicised in recitals 740 and 742, On further appeal to the Court of Justice, it was argued that the General Court had erred in focusing on the benefits to merchants, despite recognising in para 228 that advantages could be taken into account for any market that benefited from the existence of the agreement in question. The General Court went on to state at para 233 that it was for the applicants (Mastercard and other financial institutions), in order to prove that The passage which we have italicised makes it clear that in a situation where the disadvantages resulting from a restriction of competition are felt on only one side of a two sided market which is the position in this case then the advantages on the other market cannot be taken into account for the purposes of the first condition of article 81(3) EC (or article 101(3), TFEU), in the absence of particular par had appeal, albeit by reasoning which was not precisely the same as that set out above. It may, however, be helpful if, in addition to rejecting Visas argument, we provide some positive guidance, based upon our own understanding of the EU materials, while recognising that it lacks the authority accorded by EU law to a judgment of the CJEU. The second condition in article 101( The claims of the merchants in these appeals are for damages for loss caused to them by the tortious acts of the operators of the payment card schemes in breach of their statutory obligations under the 1998 Act. It is not in dispute, as we discuss below, that the fundamental principle underlying the merchants claims is that the damages to which they are entitled are compensatory; the merchants are entitled to be placed, so far We are not concerned on these appeals with the principle of equivalence. On 9 March 2017, the United Kingdom implemented Parliament and Council Directive 2014/104/EU of 26 November 2014 on certain rules governing actions for damages under national law for infringements of the competition law provisions of the member states and of the European Union (OJ 2014 L349, p 1) (the Damages Directive) by bringing The merchants say that their claims are satisfied economic loss and must prove a property to property without loss of property which has resulted directly from the breach of competition law by the operators of the schemes. That direct loss is prima facie measured by the extent of the overcharge in the MSC. It is trite law that, as a general principle, the damages to be awarded for SC, the merchants are entitled to claim the overcharge on the MSC as the prima facie measure of their loss. As sophisticated retailers, which obtain their supplies from many suppliers and sell a wide range of goods to many customers, they can respond to the imposition of a cost in a number of ways, as the CAT pointed out in paras 434 and 455 of its judgment. There are four principal options: ( iii The burden of proving which lies on the defendant who asserts it. But in the context of these appeals, as we discuss below, the significance of the legal burden should not be overstated. The statement of the Court of Appeal in para 324 of its judgment in the present case is an accurate statement of English law: Whether or not the unlawful charge has been passed on is a question of fact, the burden of 1 of the Damages Directive requires member states to ensure not only that both direct and indirect purchasers who have suffered harm should be able to claim full compensation but also that compensation exceeding the harm caused by the infringement of competition law is avoided. The European Commission has issued Guidelines for national courts on how to estimate the share of overcharge which was passed on to the indirect purchaser (2019/C 267/07) In conclusion, we do not interpret the Court of Appeal as having held that the defendants had to prove the exact amount of the loss mitigated. The loss caused by the overcharge included in the MSC was an increased cost which the merchants would in all probability not address as an individual cost but would take into account along with a multiplicity of other costs when developing their annual budgets. In accordance with the compensatory c. The Court of Appeals reasoning on this point is at para 366: We take the view that, despite what we have said above, it is not certain that, had Popplewell J had the benefit of this judgment and thus been fully aware of the need for empirical data and facts in order to prove an exemption, MasterCards case on article 101(3) would have failed in its entirety at Mars. The trial before Popplewell J was a final trial between AAM and Mastercard of the issues between them under article 101(1) and 101(3) so far as affected Mastercards liability to AAM. In preparing for the trial, Mastercard was aware of the significance of the issue of pass through, not least because attention had been called to that issue in the Mastercard Commission Decision (as We agree with the Court of Appeal at para 366 (above) that AAM is entitled to the result it was entitled to have achieved at first instance. That result is not a windfall, nor is it unjustified. It is the just outcome of the contest fought by the parties in those proceedings. This is sufficient to justify allowing AAMs cross appeal. However, we also