I can take the relevant events from the judgment of Longmore LJ in the Court of Appeal. On 3 May 2006 the vessel Alexandros T sank and became a total loss 300 miles south of Port Elizabeth, with considerable loss of On 13 December 2007, which was the day before the hearing before Tomlinson J referred to above, the 2006 proceedings had been settled between Starlight and OME and the LMI for 100% of the claim, but without All these allegations arise out of the alleged manner in which the defendants handled Starlight's claim in respect of the Alexandros T, and, even though the consequences and the consequential losses have expanded, and the claim for moral damages has been included, The insurers sought to enforce the settlement agreements referred to in the Tomlin Orders and, in a judgment handed down on 19 December 2011, having refused a stay under Article 28, the judge held that they were entitled to summary judgment for (inter alia) a declaration that the matters sought First, the purpose of Article 27 is to prevent the courts of two Member States from giving inconsistent judgments and to preclude, so far as possible, the non recognition of a judgment on the ground that it is irreconcilable with Case De Ma en Ma, that, broadly speaking, the triple requirement of same parties, same cause and same objet entails that it is only in relatively straightforward situations that art 21 bites, and, it may be said, is intended to bite. The CMIs claim for an indemnity under clause 3 of the settlement agreement is not the same cause or cause of action as any of the causes of action relied upon in Greece, which are tortious. As to cause, the subject matter The same is also, in my opinion, true of the claims based on what are called the release provisions in the CMI settlement agreement. The formulation in paragraph 18(a), which was adopted by the respondents, is in fact 48. Before I express my reasons, I should say that I suspect that the focus of the argument in the Court of Appeal was somewhat different from that in this Court. The reasons are I think twofold. First, in para 40 The LMI claims: same causes of action? Save possibly for two points, the position of the LMI is essentially the same as in the case of the CMI. The first point is that the jurisdiction clause in clause 5 of It is not I think in dispute (and is in any event correct) that a court is only seised of claims by or against new parties from the date that those parties are added to the proceedings. Where the question is which of two Where a court is and served, a claim in temporal court is already issued and served by a court and served a claim to the same party, or by the introduction of a claim or counterclaim against another party, the relevant proceedings It is plain from the express terms of Article 28(1) that the discretion in Article 28 is limited to any court other than the court first seised. Article 28 moreover applies to related actions pending in the courts of different member states and, by Where court is no longer seised of the proceedings. Article 30 of the Regulation provides for the circumstances in which a court is deemed to be seised. I recognise of course that the concept of seisin is an autonomous European law device Longmore LJ said at para 62 that, in the second place, Rix LJ provided his tentative response to his tentative view in the remainder of paragraph 129 which he then quoted. That response is to my mind telling. Long (EU staying stay for staying) There is no question that in the exercise of the discretion regard may be had to the question of which court is in the best position to decide a given question. On the facts here those questions can be The most important point raised by this part of the appeal is whether, once the point was brought to its attention, the Court of Appeal was bound to consider Article 27 (as quoted at para 24 above) because it expressly provides that, where 70. Comparison must be made between the claims made in the two actions, regardless of possible defences, to see whether they proceed on essentially the same facts and under the same rule of law. It is well established that in order for Article 27 35. The CJEU has recognised the importance of national rules of procedure. Thus, for example, in Shevill v Presse Alliance SA (Case C 69/93) [1995] 2 AC 18 the CJEU said For these reasons I would therefore consider the CJEU reasons to pursue the Article 27. The time limit satisfies the principle of equivalence because it is the same rule that applies in all cases. It fulfils a legitimate aim, namely making sure that points GeneralI am in substantial but not complete agreement with the reasoning and conclusions reached in the course of the judgment prepared by Lord Clarke, although, ultimately, as will appear, we agree on the proper disposition of these appeals. The differences between The English claims that the Greek claims have been settled or were compromised are in my opinion mirror images of the Greek tort claims. The Greek claims aim to enforce tort liabilities. The first head of the English claims aims to establish that there are no such The second and third heads are more elusive. Claims for a declaration that the bringing of the Greek claims was a breach, and for damages for the breach, of the release in the Settlement Agreements may on one view be seen as little different Accordingly, the second and third heads of release claims, analysed as I have analysed them, are outside the scope of article 27. As regards the first head, the remaining issue