section with 1998 Commission on 1998 Act. The question whether the Police Service for Northern Ireland (PSNI) was sufficiently aware of the full range and scope of those powers is now the principal issue in this appeal. Application for leave to apply for judicial review was first made on 31 January 2013. Its primary focus was on obtaining relief in relation to a planned parade on 2 February and challenging the failure of PSNI to give assurances that they would take action to prevent Until 3 December 2012 the Union flag flew over Belfast City Hall throughout the year. On that date the City Council decided that the flag should fly on certain designated days only. That decision sparked a wave of protests throughout Northern Ireland which continued for some months. The present appeal is concerned with those protests which took place in Belfast and the policing operations that were undertaken to deal with them. The appellant is a resident in Short Strand and his and his neighbours homes have come under PSNI maintains a service procedure which gives guidance for dealing with public processions and protest meeting applications. It is also intended to provide advice on the interaction between the Parades Commission and PSNI. The service procedure was issued on 31 March 2008 and amended and reissued on 9 June 2011. An event is defined in the procedure as including any event or incident ranging from routine operational policing through to major disorder requiring a degree of planning. When an event has been notified or The application for judicial review generated a substantial number of affidavits. Apart from those of Assistant Chief Constable Kerr, the most significant of these relate to exchanges between police and a local Sinn Fein councillor, Niall ODonnghaile. His council area includes Short Strand. He wrote to Chief Superintendent McCrum on 8 January 2013 asking for information about notification of the parades. He also inquired about the action PSNI intended to take in the event that no notification 5. Operational decisions taken by PSNI were not immune from challenge on the basis that they were taken within an area of discretionary judgment since that had been wrongly informed by the belief that there was no power to stop the parades; and 6. The circumstances of the present case were quite different from those of E the Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary [2009] AC 536 where the appellant had to surmount the high hurdle of showing that The Lord Chief Justice said (at para 46 of the judgment): The interview on which the article was based explored a number of aspects of the unnotified parades. He indicated that police did not want to find themselves in the situation they were in prior to the 1998 Act. He went on to indicate that police were faced with having to make decisions about the appropriate response to such parades on the basis of a risk or threat to life. It was against that background that he The Parades Commission was established by section 1 of the 1998 Act. Its functioning in relation to controlling public processions depends on receipt of a notification of an intention to hold a parade. Article 3(1) of the Public Order (Northern Ireland) Order 1987 required a person proposing to organise a public procession to give seven days written notice of that proposal to the police. Article 4 of the 1987 Order provided: (1) If a senior police officer, having regard see a priori, a High Contracting Party requires that the holding of meetings be subject to authorisation (see Nurettin Aldemir v Turkey Turkey 32124/02, 32126/02). However, the Parades Commission does not have the power to authorise a parade to take place. It is not clear why this should be regarded as a particular problem, at least in terms of police operational decisions. When the correct legal position appades but result the result of illegal parade under the Public Processions Act; and that the situation was legally complicated and judicial clarification was needed. The situation was not legally complicated, although, in fairness to ACC Kerr this is a judgment that can be made in confidence now, with the benefit of close attention to the text and effect of the 1998 Act. The 1998 Act is the considered response of Parliament to the intractable problem of parades in Northern Ireland. This The Lord Chief Justice considered that the central issue in the case was whether the police response to the parades was based on the need to take account of the possibility of violence and disorder giving rise to article 2 risks both in the immediate vicinity and in the wider Northern Ireland community. The appellant had challenged what she claimed was the failure of police to discharge their positive obligation to protect her and her daughter against the infliction upon them of inhuman and degrading treatment within the meaning of article 3 of On several occasions in the recent past this court has had to address the issue of the proper approach to be taken by an appellate court to its review of findings made by a judge at first instance. The reasons justifying that approach are not limited to the fact, emphasised in Clarkes case and Thomas v Thomas, that the trial judge is in a privileged position to assess the credibility of witnesses evidence. Other relevant considerations were explained by the United States Supreme Court in 5. ConclusionI would reverse the decision of the Court