1 paragraph 2(2) of Schedule 3 to the Immigration Act 1971, which provides that where notice has been given to a person of a decision to make a deportation order against him, he may be detained under the authority of the Secretary of State pending the making of the deportation order. The appellant was born in Rwanda. He came to the United Kingdom in August 2000 and sought refugee status because of what he claimed was a well founded fear of persecution if he returned to his native land. His claim was accepted on 26 October 2000 on the basis that he was At para 88 of Lord Dysons) in Lumba v Secretary of State for the Home Department [2011] UKSC 12, there was a significant passagea to the Court of Appeal in which it was argued that the decision to make a deportation order and the making of the order did not impact upon the lawfulness of the detention. Sullivan LJ (who delivered the leading judgment) considered the decision of this court in R (Lumba) (R) v Secretary to make deportation order, and the case of R (Draga) v The reference in para 57 of Sullivan LJs judgment in Draga to the question whether the unlawful decisions (founded on the ultra vires status of the 2004 Order) bore upon or were relevant to the decision to detain was prompted by a statement in para 68 of Lumba. But his observations there must be read in the light of his more important statements in paras 66 and 88 (cited above at paras 12 and 13). In the first of these passages Lord Dyson made it clear that there is no difference between a detention which is unlawful because there was no statutory power to detain and a detention in breach of a rule of oppoppoppat and issue the claim for damages for false imprisonment. At the material time, it provided: Where notice has been given to a person in accordance with regulations under section 18 of this Act of a decision to make a deportation order against him he may be detained under the authority of the Secretary of State pending the making of the deportation order. Ullah was considered by the Court of Appeal in D v Home Office [2006] 1 WLR 1003. In that case it had been alleged that immigration officers had made decisions in a manner which fell outside the jurisdiction conferred on Permission to appeal from the Court of Appeal in Draga was refused by this court. (paras 81 and 82) He distinguished R v Governor of Brockhill Prison, Ex p Evans (No 2) [2001] 2 AC 19, in which the prison governor had sought to justify detention by reference to views expressed by the Divisional Court subsequently held to be erroneous: That is distinguishable from a deportation order based on the apparently lawful 2004 Order, lawfully made and also, in this case, upheld by the decision of the tribunal promulgated on 15 February I start from the position that the decision to detain in this case was directly dependent on the deportation decision. Without it there would have been no detention, nor any legal basis for detention. Even if the illegality was two steps back as Mr Tam submits, that step was the foundation of what followed. He submits that, taking any of the tests proposed in Lumba (1997 Court of Appeal) and in the case of the second actor, the legal error must be one relating to the decision itself. A decision made two or more steps By way of introduction, I refer to the speech of Lord Bridge of Harwich, agreed by the other members of the House in Thrasyvoulou v Secretary of State for the Environment [1990] 2 AC 273. This was a planning case. In 1982 the owner had appealed under section 88 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1971 against enforcement notices issued by the local planning authority alleging a material change of use of certain properties to use as a hotel or a hostel. On appeal the inspector quashed the notices, finding that the use was correctly characterised as hotel use, not as hostel use A useful illustration of the strength of the principle in a quasi public context, again at the highest level, is Watt v Ahsan [2007] UKHL 51; [2008] AC 696. A Labour Party councillor, of Pakistani origin, had brought a claim against the Labour Party in the employment tribunal for unlawful discrimination on racial grounds (contrary to section 12 of the Race Relations Act 1976) in failing to select him as an election candidate. Before the final determination of the claim on the merits, it was held by the Court of Appeal in unrelated proceedings It is important to note that there was no suggestion that the decision on the first rent review could be reopened. It is true that the severity of this rule is tempered by a discretion to allow the issue to be reopened in subsequent proceedings when there are special circumstances in which it would cause injustice not to do so: see Arnold v National Westminster Bank plc [1991] 2 AC 93. That case related to the construction of a lease providing for rent reviews at five yearly intervals, such reviews to be carried out by reference to a hypothetical lease for the residue of the term. In the Mr Knafler relied on cases which say, as he puts it, that res judicata and issue estoppel, as those terms are understood in private law, either have no application in judicial review or do not apply in the ordinary way. They include at Court of Appeal level: R v Secretary of State for the Environment, Ex p Hackney London Borough Council [1984] 1 WLR 592, R (Munjaz) v Mersey Care NHS Trust [2003] EWCA Civ 1036; [2004] QB 395, O Since the Secretary of State has not hitherto relied on the principle of res judicata or issue estoppel, it would clearly be unfair to DN for the court to introduce it at this stage as a possible reason for determining the appeal against him, whatever the position may