Section 9 is headed Ancillary powers. It provides: (1) The Commissioners may do anything which they think (a) necessary or expedient in connection with the exercise of their functions, or (b) functions. incidental or conducive to the Exercise of their function. Section 5 is headed Commissioners initial functions. The duty is now in statutory form. This appeal concerns the scope of the duty of confidentiality owed by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) in respect of the affairs of tax payers. The marketing in the film and entertainment industries. Mr Patrick McKenna is a former senior partner of a global firm of chartered accountants. He is the founder and chief executive officer of Ingenious Media Holdings plc. The company and its subsidiaries (collectively) are an investment and advisory group special film investment schemes involving The schemes were made by Mr McKenna in the media industries. HMRC has the right to make the information relating to the tax avoidance schemes and utilisation of the information related to the investment schemes. The Marketing in the entertainment industries is the right of HMRC to made the information relevant to the investments and utilise of the investments to the film industry. The advertising in the films The claim by Ingenious Media and Mr McKenna was brought by way of an application for judicial review, although in substance it was a straightforward claim for breach of a duty of confidentiality. The form in which the claim was brought appears to have influenced its perception by the courts below. At first instance, Sales J held that it was not appropriate for the court to approach Mr Hartnetts decision to say what he said as if the court were the primary decision maker: [2013] EWHC 3258 (Admin), para 40. He laid stress on the fact that the disclosures made were limited and that the interview was agreed to be off the record. The court, he held, could only intervene if satisfied that Mr Hartnett could not rationally take the view that speaking to the journalists as he did would assist HMRC in the exercise of its tax collection functions. Sales J emphasised, at para 50, that the rationality standard is a flexible one, which varies in the width of discretion allowed to a decision maker according to the strength of the public interest and the strong of the interests of any individual affected by the decision to be taken. In short, he approached the matter as a review on public law principles of an administrative 3. In R (Public Law Project) v Lord Chancellor [2016] 3 WLR 387, para 26, Lord Neuberger of Abbotsbury PSC, with the agreement of the other members of the court, cited with approval the following passage in Craies on Legislation, 10th ed (2012), edited by Daniel Greenberg, at para 1. He explained the principle as follows: Fundamental rights cannot be overridden by general or ambiguous words. This is because there is too great a risk that the full implications of their unqualified meaning may have passed unnoticed in the democratic process. In the absence of express language or necessary implication to the contrary, the courts therefore presume that even the most general words were intended to be subject to the basic rights of the individual. A similar principle can be seen in the courts approach to the interpretation of powers delegated under a so called Henry VIII clause. In passing the 2005 Act, Parliament cannot be supposed to have envisaged that by section 18(2)(a)(i) it was authorising HMRC officials to discuss its views of individual taxpayers in off the record discussions, whenever officials thought that this would be expedient for some collateral purpose connected with its functions, such as developing HMRCs relations with the press. Off the record is an idiom and like many idioms can bear different shades of meaning. It may, for example, mean strictly confidential or it may be intended to mean not to be directly quoted or attributed. The judge found that Mr Hartnett understood it to mean that the interview was to be a background briefing, intended to influence the journalists views and what they wrote about matters affecting HMRC but notto be published. The Court of Appeal upheld the judges decision but not his approach. There has been no appeal against that finding, but nothing in my view can be said to be conclusive as to the meaning of Off the record. The courts approach to review of HMRCs conduct suggested that it was not for the courts to decide the question of breach of a duty of confidentiality. It is a cardinal error to suppose that the public law remedies and principles associated with judicial review of the exercise of administrative power, developed by the common law from the ancient prerogative writs, occupy the entire field whenever the party whose conduct is under challenge holds a public position. The common law is multi faceted and remains the bedrock of the English legal system. Among other authorities, the point is well illustrated by the decision by the Court of appeal in W v Egd It is my view that the disclosure was justified under section 18(2)(a) of the Act.