Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas Act 1990 (the Listed Buildings Act). It concerns the correct treatment of a pair of early 18th century lead urns (or finials), attributed to the Flemish sculptor John van Nost, each resting on a limestone pedestal of a slightly later date. There is no doubt as to their artistic significance, which led to them being sold at auction in 2009 for 55,000. It is understood that The current statutory provisions are contained in the Listed Buildings Act. They are subject to minor variations in the same form as enacted in the Town and Country Planning Act 1968, and repeated in subsequent consolidations. For present purposes it is sufficient to refer to the current Act. Section 1(1) requires the Secretary of State to compile lists of buildings of special architectural or historic interest. Subsection (5A) enables the list to indicate that particular objects or structures mentioned in subsection (5 Is designation as a listed building conclusive? Without disrespect to the courts below, I can deal with the first issue relatively shortly. As Mr David Elvin QC for the Secretary of State rightly accepts (in the words of his written submissions, citing Boddington v British Transport Police [1999] 2 AC 143): The issue of statutory construction is subject to the rule of law that individuals affected by legal measures should have a fair opportunity to challenge these measures and to vindicate Mr Elvin argues that there is a need for clarity about the identification of listed buildings, which may have to be considered as material considerations in various statutory contexts. He cites for example Lord Hope of Craighead in City of Edinburgh Council v Secretary of State for Scotland [1997] 1 WLR 1447: The Act assumes, in regard to the statutory procedures, that the question whether or not the building is a listed building can be determined simply by inspecting the list which the Secretary Although the guide gives much useful information about the assessment of the historic interest of such objects and uses the word structures to describe them, it contains no discussion of the criteria by which they are to be treated as buildings within the statutory definition, nor in particular whether they are thought to qualify in their own right, or under the extended definition. At p 10 the guide refers to statuary, urns and other features such as sundials and astronomical devices which adorned formal gardens The extended definition, first introduced in the Town and Country Planning Act 1968, seems to have been designed to clarify the position following the case of Corthorn Land and Timber Co Ltd v Minister of Housing and Local Government (1966) 17 P & CR 210. The dispute was about certain pictures and other objects which, it was said, should pass as fixtures on the sale of a house. The disputed items included a statue and sundial in the garden. The court was agreed A statue or structure may qualify as a listed building in its own right. Although that is not a precise formulation, it follows in my view that a statue or other ornamental object, which is neither physically attached to the land, nor directly related to the design of the relevant listed building and its setting, cannot be treated as a curtilage structure and so part of the building within the extended definition. That formulation was derived from the judgment of Schiemann LJ in the Skerritts v Barvis [1962] 2 QB 126, DC was the first case to be considered at Court of Appeal level in relation to the application of the statutory definition in the Town and Country Planning Act 1962 (ie in section 221 of that Act, now re enacted as section 336 of the 1990 Act). Barvis was concerned with alleged development comprising the laying of a bulk of steel track and the mounting thereon be wide be a moveable tower crane some 89 feet in I return finally to the two items at issue in this case. In doing so I emphasise that we have not heard any detailed submissions on these matters. Nor were we shown any commentary which was critical of the existing guides from the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport and Historic England. At this point, it may be useful to consider how the Skerritts criteria might apply to the various forms of garden structure identified in the guide discussed in the previous section. Mr Dill is entitled to a fair hearing in the context of a renewed appeal. On the view I have taken, that opportunity