Section 188 of TULCRA is in general terms. Subsection 1 provides: (1) Where an employer is proposing to dismiss as redundant 20 or more employees at one establishment within a period of 90 days or less, the employer shall consult about the dismissals all the persons who are appropriate representatives of any The proceedings initiated by Mrs Nolan have not taken a straightforward course. She succeeded before the Employment Tribunal (LJ Guyer, Mrs S Foulser and Mr M W Heckford), obtaining on 17 March 2008 an order for remuneration for a one month protected period. The order was on 15 May 2009 upheld The appellant has through counsel raised two points of construction and one of vires. The first point of construction, argued by Mr Cavanagh QC, is that the domestic legal provisions should be given an interpretation conforming to that given in the first part of the Court of Justices judgment, at least as regards foreign states In the case of Teckal, the Court of Justice gave this guidance: 50. The answer to the question must therefore be that Directive 93/36 is applicable in the case where a contracting authority, such as a local authority, plans to conclude in writing, with an entity which is formally distinct from it 2 7. Lord Hopes further observations about the domestic legal history of the Regulations are relevant not only to construction, but also to the third point on vires, which I consider later. There is nothing in the explanatory memorandum to the Regulations that was prepared by the Office of Government Commerce and laid before Parliament to indicate that I turn therefore to the second point of construction and to the additional considerations which it raises. As in the courts below, so before us the arguments advanced have been, as Slade J described them, both sophisticated and imaginative. They have also been careful and helpful in enabling the court to reach a conclusion on them American antitrust laws, when applied to foreign conduct, can interfere with the sovereign authority of other nations. See Restatement (Third) of Foreign Relations Law of the United States sections 403(1), 403(2) (1986) (published May 14, 1986) (limiting the unreasonable exercise of pres Sir Daniel Bethlehem sought to emphasise the importance for a foreign state such as the appellant of recognising in TULCRA an implied exemption for a decision to dismiss for redundancy taken on jure imperii grounds. That is true, but carried to its logical conclusion it would mean that all legislation should, however clear in scope To give teeth to his submissions, Sir Daniel invokes European Union law, to which the Court of Appeal in Benkharbouche also referred. Article 27 of the Charter requires that Workers or their representatives must, at the appropriate levels, be guaranteed information and consultation in good time in the cases and under the I come to the third point, the appellants submission that the 1995 Regulations were ultra vires section 2 of the European Communities Act 1972. The underlying purpose is to promote the objects of the Union and in particular the free movement of workers between the member states and the free establishment of businesses within them. The freedom of Section 2(2)(a) of the 1972 Act is a subsection to enable further measures to be taken which naturally arise from the primary purpose being achieved. It is the means by which Regulations have effect. As article 288 indicates, Directives are not as specific as Regulations in their impact or, often, in their terms. or obligations a field obligations (or the author decision that the United Kingdoms EU obligations or rights) are to be implemented. Some general observations are possible, arising from these passages. First, so far as possible, it is clearly desirable to avoid paraphrase, though almost impossible to do so completely, if No challenge whether a Directive, such as Directive 2004/18/EC in that case, (i) addresses an internal market competition issue, by introducing procedures for the award of public works, supply and service contracts, but does not cover a situation where (ii) public authorities contract inter se, or where (iii) a local authority For TULCRA in its unamended form was actually a piece of primary legislation. It cannot have been directed to matters which would be outside the European Unions internal market competence. Equally, the extension did not arise out of the obligations in the Directive and was not related to them. It was on its face EU revisited this issue in Akavan Erityisalojen Keskusliitto (AEK) ry v Fujitsu Siemens Computers Oy (Case C 44/08) [2010] ICR 444; [2009] ECR I 8163 (the Fujitsu decision); but unfortunately the effect The European court held that the armed forces fell clearly within the exception for public administration or equivalent bodies under article 1(2)(b). This was also supported by the objectives of the Directive, concerned with improving the protection of workers and the functioning of the internal market (para 39): 41. Whilst the size and functioning In this court, Mr Beloff QC supports the reasoning of the Court of Appeal. Article 5 of the Directive made clear that the Directive sought to achieve minimum harmonisation only. Member states were free to enact laws more favourable to workers than those required by the Directive. Section 188, as applied to public administrative bodies, arose I find it difficult therefore to find the relationship required by section 2(2)(b) to support the 1995 Regulations. The key, as Lord Hope said, at [2011] 2 AC 34, para 25, must lie in the context. The relationship must be one relevant to the purpose