Letham Grange is a neoclassical mansion built in the 1820s, with extensive landscaped grounds. In modern times the house was converted into a hotel, and the grounds were laid out as two golf courses. The hotel became popular with golfers, and was also used by judges sitting on circuit in the nearby town of Forfar. The property was bought in 1994 by a company based in Canada, and sold in 2001 to the second appellant, Foxworth Investments Ltd (Foxworth), which was based in the United Kingdom. Mr Liu gave evidence that LGDC had been established as a special purchase vehicle for the acquisition of the subjects in 1994. He was its sole shareholder. The purchase was financed out of loans of over 2.3m made to LGDC by himself, his wife and his parents. The loans came from accounts held with Sanwa Bank in Canada. 200,000 was borrowed from the bank, the borrowing being guaranteed by another family company, Coquihalla. The borrowing from Sanwa was due to be repaid in October 2000. According to Mr Liu There was no evidence in the liquidators case that in 2001, as part of the consideration for the subjects, NSL assumed the debt which the company owed to the Liu family. Mr Liu had described this as a thought which was never implemented. The liquidator sought to establish, in particular, that the documentation relating to the assumption of the loan had not been prepared on the dates which it bore, but had been produced subsequently in order to support a false case. Mr Lius wife and parents gave evidence that they left the running of the familys 5. Failure to deal adequately with the evidence? Lady Paton described the way in which the Lord Ordinary had erred in his approach to the evidence at para 78 of her opinion: He did not take the final step of (i) clearly recognising that there was a significant circumstantial case pointing to a network of transactions entered into with the purpose of keeping Letham Grange (valued at 1.8 million) out of the control of the liquidator, and (ii) explaining why, nevertheless, he was not persuaded that the liquidators should Those passages might be contrasted with para 101 of Lady Patons opinion: I should add that it is possible that the Lord Ordinary was influenced to some extent by his understanding that the original 2 million which was paid for Letham Grange in 1994 was said to be Liu family money. This is consistent with Mr Gardner's correspondence at the time. But ultimately this does not matter. The fact is that LGDC did sell the subjects to NSL, whatever might have been the true reasons for that. The reason for the saleAs I have mentioned, Lady Lady Patons second example of the neutralising of a piece of evidence was a comment made by the Lord Ordinary in relation to the claims submitted on behalf of the Liu family in the liquidation of LGDC, which did not initially take account of the assumption of part of the loan by NSL: It seems to me to be perfectly possible that Mr Liu, in instructing his lawyers in that case, did not at that moment put two and two together so as to realise that the assumption by matter had matters crucial part he had been been repaid: Mr Liu was not directly The Lord Ordinary returned to the point in his discussion of credibility, noting as one of the points made by counsel for the liquidator that Mr Liu did not tell Mr Gardner in terms that the consideration for the sale included an assumption by NSL of 1.85 million of the Liu family debt owed by LGDC (para 82). As I have mentioned, he later said that in coming to his conclusion he had taken account of all the criticisms of Mr Lius evidence, and he took that into account. He then noted that, in cross examination, Mr Against the background I have described, the criticisms levelled at the Lord Ordinary in relation to this matter appear to me to miss their target. His conclusion that nothing turned on the date when the letters were written was one he was entitled to reach. It was clear that there was a loan from the Liu family in the total amount shown by the letters. But nothing turns on this. The loans were made to LGDC and were enforceable according to the terms of the letters the fact that letters are back dated does not invalidate Lady Paton referred in particular to the well known dictum of Lord Thankerton in Thomas v Thomas 1947 SC (HL) 45, 54; [1947] AC 484, 488: The appellate court, either because the reasons given by the trial judge are not satisfactory, or because it unmistakably so appears from the evidence, may be satisfied that he has not taken proper advantage of his having seen and heard the witnesses, and the matter will then become at large for the appellate court. As Lady Paton noted, that dictum was cited by Lord Hope of As I have explained, Foxworth and NSL had a cross appeal which the Extra Division did not find it necessary to determine. Questions in relation to awards of expenses in the Court of Session are generally best determined by that court. In discussion, it was accepted that no prejudice would be occasioned by rem