These proceedings arise out of the deaths of three young men who lost their lives while serving in the British Army in Iraq and the suffering by two other young servicemen of serious injuries. The units in which they were serving were sent to Smith) v Human Rights Commission of Human Rights said2011] 1 went on nevertheless judgment that the claimants tank and the tanks of the battle group that fired on it were properly equipped with the technology and equipment that would have prevented the incident. Article 1 of the Convention provides as follows: The High Contracting Parties shall secure to everyone within their jurisdiction the rights and freedoms defined in section 1 of this Convention. In Soering v United Kingdom (1989) 11 EHRR 4 Thirdly, it was recognised that the wording of article 1 does not provide any support for the applicants suggestion that the positive obligation in article 1 to secure the rights and freedoms defined in section 1 of this Convention can be divided and tailored in accordance The structure of the relevant part of the Grand Chambers judgment, at (2011) 53 EHRR 589, falls into two parts. First, there is a comprehensive statement of general principles relevant to the issue of jurisdiction under article We are not concerned with the risk of a vacuum in the Convention legal space. Nor are we concerned with a vacuum of jurisdiction. It is necessary to examine the Courts case law to identify the defining principles. There then follow three paragraphs The question whether at the time of their deaths Pte Hewett and Pte Ellis were within the jurisdiction of the United Kingdom for the purposes of article 1 of the Convention does not receive a direct answer from the Grand Chamber in its It was always possible to see how likely be difficult be cases, given that the states armed forces abroad were not within its jurisdiction for the purposes of article 1. In Catherine Smith, para 93, I endorsed the view expressed by Lord Brown 2006 non binding particular recommendations and recommendations of the Committee of the European Convention on Human Rights 35, para 32. The quotation from it in that paragraph includes the proposition that authorised agents of a state remain under its jurisdiction when abroad. It was Lord Collins said in Catherine Smith, para 308 that to extend the scope of the Convention to armed forces abroad would ultimately involve the courts in issues relating to the conduct of armed hostilities which are essentially non justiciable. That some issues relating in the relationship between the state and its armed forces as it exists in relation to overseas operations in matters such as, for example, the adequacy of equipment, planning or training. As Lord Rodger observed in Catherine Smith, para 122 Fundamentally, article 2 requires a state to have in place a structure of laws which will help to protect life: Savage v South Essex NHS Trust [2008] UKHL 74, [2009] AC 681, Stoyanovi v Russia (Application Nos 18299/03 and 27311/03), given 20 December 2011, para 213, where the Court was prepared to give a margin of appreciation to the domestic authorities, in so far as the military The Challenger claims proceed on the basis that there is no common law liability for negligence in respect of acts or omissions on the part of those who are actually engaged in armed combat. So it has been suggested that Lt Pinkstone or anyone else Combat immunity made its first appearance in Shaw Savill & Albion Co Ltd v Commonwealth (1940) 66 CLR 344. A collision had occurred between HMAS Adelaide and a civilian vessel, the MV Coptic. It took place on There is not much by way of close reasoning in Shaw Savill and Groves, apart from assertions that where combat immunity applies the doctrine is justified by reason and policy. But the doctrine itself, as explained in Mulcahy, Mr Eadie QC also renewed the argument that was advanced below that the common law claims should be struck out on the ground that it would not be fair, just and reasonable to impose a duty of care at common law to IntroductionThis first issue is whether soldiers in national army are within the jurisdiction of the United Kingdom when serving in Iraq. The sad fact is that, while members of the armed forces on active service can be given some measure of protection against death I gratefully adopt Lord Hopes summary of the various claims in paras 9 to 12 of his judgment. Common lawThe questions arising are (i) the existence and scope of any common law responsibility on the part of the state towards its The question of combat immunity is not so much an entirely separate principle as the result of a general conclusion that it is not fair, just or reasonable to regard the Crown or its officers, soldiers or agents as under a duty of care C deployment of combat to the enemy; in the event that the Ministry of Defence was in a position to engage the enemy in combat, the police would be obliged to take a defensive approach to the action and to the preparation of the defence to In contrast the Multiple Claimants and Ellis claimants fitted to immunity so narrowly that planning and preparation for military operations and allocation of resources could not be applied to them. In considering the Challenger claims and the Ellis claim for negligence, Owen J referred to No care care, it is in this area decided of the cases which the Strasbourg court has examined of the common law duty of care and/or duties under the Human Rights Convention. The claimants case is that during or after any war As Osman v Osman, Osman and Osman also hold that he is entitled to the greatest credit for having made and reduced to practical shape as far back as the year 1912 n article 9 a very brilliant invention which anticipated and in some respects see the Strasbourg courts recognition in other cases of the need to bear in mind the particular characteristics of military life and its effects on the situation of individual members of the armed forces (Engel v The Netherlands (No 1) I am not over enamoured of the cautionary warning to this court that the road to Strasbourg is a one way street, which a claimant can tread if this Court has not gone far enough, but which the In my view, the approach taken by the majority of the Js for the defence of the British army and the armed forces against claims by the relatives and dependants of soldiers killed or injured in the conduct of combat or in the procurement and deployment of equipment or troops, in my view would It is important to recognise that we are being asked to authorise an extension of the law of negligence (as indeed of article 2), into a new field. There is no dispute as to the existence in domestic law of a principle known For that reason I agree with Lord Mance that the scope of combat immunity should now be discussed, not as a separate principle, but as part of the third element of the Caparo analysis. Equally, in my view, we iii) The majority were able to support an exception based on public policy reasons. This was subject to two qualifications: first, the further dimension identified by Denning LJ (Watt v Hertfordshire County Council [1954] 1 W Before drawing some conclusions, and for completeness, although it did not figure prominently in the oral argument, I should address the suggestion that the claim gains at least implicit support from the Crown Proceedings (Armed Forces) Act 1987. Although I have discussed the issues at some length, but I have preferred these conduct of the court in determining the limits of potential liability under the law of negligence. Those passages raise a number of possible issues, on which we have heard no argument, The claims in the present cases go further.