Who should bear those costs? There are three possible answers: the companies, the receiver or the CPS. The question has been considered by four judges who have arrived at three different answers. The appellant, who is a former partner in a well known firm of accountants, was appointed to act as management receiver of the assets of a group of companies referred to as Eastenders The first question is whether the companies rights under A1P1 would be infringed by having their assets taken to pay the receivers remuneration and expenses. When granting permission to appeal to this court, the leave panel asked the parties to address the additional issue whether there are any powers which could be exercised to prevent this situation arising whatever the outcome of the appeal. If Laws L The letter said: It is alleged that much of the fraudulent activity has been facilitated through a company known as Eastenders Cash and Carry plc and various subsidiary companies in Slough, Barking, Croydon, Birmingham and Coventry. The companies had around 120 employees and an aggregate turnover in the region of 150 million. Clearly, the effective management of these companies and The Court of Appeal held that on the basis of the material before the judge, at the time of the ex parte hearing, there was insufficient evidence to support the judges conclusion that there was reasonable cause to believe that the companies were just a front, sham or device behind which the defendants were sheltering in order to conceal fraud. The court said that, on the contrary, the evidence before it suggested Section 72(6) provides for compensation in cases where an order has been made under the part of the Act which includes receivership orders, but there are a number of conditions. Section 72 gives power to the Crown Court to order payment of such compensation as it believes is just in cases in which a receiver has been appointed under section 48 or 50 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 55. Nicholas Hughes was charged with VAT fraud. Nicholas was the joint owner of a company with his brother Timothy, each holding 50% of the shares. Timothy was never charged. A restraint and receivership order was made against Nicholas, preventing the company from dealing in any way with its assets. The known assets of the defendant comprised some properties, some cars, some bank accounts and Mr Perry relied on a number of cases in which the Strasbourg Court held that interim restraints imposed on a defendants liberty or use of his property in the course of criminal proceedings did not contravene the Convention or A1P1. He added that he did not read the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Hughes as excluding that possibility. Mr Jones submitted that these decisions were distinguishable and The court held that the confiscation had been lawful within the meaning of article 5 because it was carried out pursuant a court order. In practical terms it entailed no additional restriction to the seizure, and therefore the respondent state was held not to have overstepped the margin of appreciation available to it. The court considered that the initial seizure had been an exercise of control over the The majority of the Court of Appeal began by noting that it was settled law at Strasbourg that A1P1 comprises three distinct rules (Sporrong). Since the receivers application to use the assets of the company to meet his remuneration and expenses involved a taking and not merely an interference with the use of the companies property, the relevant rule was the second rule, contained in the Since the present case involves deprivation of the companies assets, and not merely control of their use, the Court of Appeal identified the second of Sporrongs three rules as the key provision: No one shall be deprived of his possessions except in the public interest and subject to the conditions provided for by law [and by the general principles of international law]. As the court recognised, the Mr Jones submitted that the remuneration and expenses should be paid out of the assets of the companies was not in the public interest because it lacked a legitimate aim. Its aim, he submitted, was to enable the state to place the cost of an order which ought never to have been made on to the person against whom it was made, and that this was not a legitimate P violated the rights of the individual to the peaceful enjoyment of their property, including particularly section 49(8), set out in para 34 above. Under that subsection the court must not activate any power given to the receiver to manage the property, or realise assets for the purpose of meeting his remuneration and expenses, until any person holding an interest in the property has had a reasonable opportunity I agree with the Court of Appeal that it is not possible to locate within POCA a power to order the CPS to pay the receivers remuneration and expenses. Underhill J did not identify how this might be done and Mr Perry was not able to do so. Adopting an alternative approach suggested by the court, Mr Perry argued that the receiver was induced to Failure of consideration is not limited to non performance of a contractual obligation, although it may include that. A succinct summary of the meaning of failure of consideration was given by Professor Birks in his An Introduction to the Law of Restitution (1989), p 223 (cited with approval by the Court of Appeal in Sharma v Simposh Ltd [2011] EWCA Civ 1383 In the judgment of the Court of Appeal referred to at para 24 above, Hooper LJ deplored the fact that the original application was made at short notice to a judge who was in the middle of conducting a heavy trial and with only a limited time available for considering it. It should be axiomatic that, as he said, an application of this complexity should be listed before I agree that the receivers appeal against the decision of the Court of Appeal should be dismissed, and that he should not, in this case, be entitled to recover his expenses from the third party assets belonging to the companies. I attach as an appendix to this judgment a possible form of Piggott condition, for which I am grateful to Lord Wilson. It is important to remember that Underhill Js remarks about the closeness of the connection between the defendant and the third party are, on proper analysis, not independent tests of when an order can be made, but reflect a factor which may