The appellant, TRA, who was arrested in the United Kingdom on 1 June 2017, is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit murder (count 1) and seven counts of torture (counts 2 8). The substantive offence alleged in each case is that of torture contrary to section 134, Criminal Justice Act 1988 (C it is alleged that the offences in the indictment were committed. Section 134 CJA implements in domestic law certain obligations of the United Kingdom pursuant to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, New York, 10 December 1984, (1991) (Cm 1775), 1465 On behalf of the appellant Mr Steven Powles QC submits that section 134 CJA and the term person acting in an official capacity apply only to those acting for or on behalf of a government of a State. In Military and Paramilitary Activities in and against Nicaragua (Nicaragua v United States of America) (Mer It is well established that a treaty should be interpreted in accordance with the ordinary meaning to be given to its terms in their context. The context for the purpose of the interpretation of a treaty shall comprise, in addition to the text, including its preamble and annexes: (a) Any agreement relating to the treaty which was made We have been referred by the parties to records of the drafting history of article 1, UNCAT and to commentaries on the Convention, including Burgers and Danelius (above) and Nowak and McArthur, Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OUP, 2008). Both 117. On behalf of the appellant, Mr Powles draws particular attention to the reference by Nowak and McArthur to insistence on a traditional State centred definition and submits that it supports the view that conduct in an official capacity must be attributable to the State. Since other governments, including the United States, United Kingdom, Morocco and While these aspects of the travaux preparatoires may be inconclusive as to the meaning of the words public official or other person acting in an official capacity in article 1, they do, however, cast some light on certain objectives of the Convention. Two points, in particular, emerge with some clarity. First, it was the Part II of UNCAT establishes the CAT which consists of ten experts of high moral standing and recognized competence in the field of human rights, who shall serve in their personal capacity (article 17(1)). The States Parties are required to submit to the CAT reports on the measures they have taken to give effect to their undertakings under UNC A series of decisions of the CAT under article 22(7) UNCAT addresses the obligation on State Parties under article 3 not to expel, return or extradite a person to another State where there are substantial grounds for believing that he would be in danger of being subjected to torture. In these decisions the statements by the CAT in relation to the present issue The CAT has considered the matter more recently still, in SS v The Netherlands (19 May 2003; CAT/C/30/D/191/2001). The complainant argued that he would be in danger of being tortured by the LTTE if returned to Sri Lanka. Referring to the definition of torture in article 1, the Netherlands The appellant draws attention to the speech of Lord Millett in Pinochet (No 3) emphasising the governmental nature of the act of torture in UNCAT. On the appellants suggested reading of the provisions, only a person acting in an official capacity on behalf of the de jure government of the State could commit the offence defined Zardad v Secretary of State for the Home Department, Case No T2203 7676, 7 April 2004. Zardad was charged with a conspiracy to torture in Afghanistan in circumstances where the substantive charge would have been that contrary to section 134, CJA. The case concerned the period between 1992 and 1996 when the Hezb I US authorities the appellant relies on a number of US authorities concerning the Alien Tort Claims Act (ATCA). First, reliance is placed on certain passages in the judgment of Chief Judge Newman in Kadic v Karadzic (above). The plaintiffs sought remedies against Karadjic, the president of a three man presidency of the We have been referred to academic commentary which tends to support the reading of article 1 for which the prosecution contends. Thus, for example, Professor Paola Gaeta (When is the Involvement of State Officials a Requirement for the Crime of Torture?, Journal of International Criminal Justice 6 (2008), 183) explains that, whereas The only unequivocal academic statement of the contrary view to which we were referred was that of Professor Roger OKeefe, International Criminal Law, OUP, 2015, Ch 7. Having referred to the decision of the CAT in Elmi he continued: It is time to draw the threads together. A person acting in an official I regret I am unable to agree with the careful reasoning of Lord Jones in Zardad. However, this appeal arises out of a ruling at a preparatory hearing under section 31(3) CPIA and the issue for the judge at that hearing was the correct interpretation of the words person acting in an official capacity in section 134 CJ UNCAT, as appears from its substantive provisions, was more specific: to impose obligations on states actively to prevent and punish torture, including by means of universal jurisdiction. It is for the purpose of those obligations that article 1 adopts a definition of torture which is specifically concerned with the conduct of public officials and other persons acting 121. Fourthly, it is apparent that while many states parties, including the United Kingdom, have followed the wording of article 1 when implementing UNCAT in their domestic law, there are also states which have adopted a definition based on the understanding that article 1 is confined to situations where the responsibility of state authorities is engaged. Examples include Norway 4: The Committee observes that the issue whether the State party has an obligation to refrain from expelling a person who might risk pain or suffering inflicted by a non governmental entity, without the consent or acquiescence of the Government, falls outside the scope of article 3 of the Convention. A different approach was, however, adopted by 3. Finally, it is essential, both under our