1. Section 28 of the Housing Act 1988 (the 1988 Act) identifies a measure of damages payable by a landlord to a residential occupier of premises whom he has unlawfully evicted from them. 2. Construction of the section is not straightforward. The main purpose behind the 1988 Act was set out in a White Paper, Cm 214, entitled Housing: The Governments Proposals and presented to Parliament in September 1987. The purpose of the Act was to improve the availability of rented accommodation in the private sector by making lettings more attractive to private landlords. This was to be achieved by provisions which extended the ambit of two types of tenancy. The first was the assured tenancy in which, when letting certain types of property, the landlord had been entitled to extract a market rent rather than a lower the rent of shorthold tenancy, which had been restricted to a certain number of years, and the second was the fair rent in which the landlord was entitled to a greater sum of rent than a fair, rent in the circumstances of the tenancy. 3. The second type of tenancy which was extended by section 28 was the security tenancy. It was one of two flats in a purpose built two storey building and at all material times the flat upstairs, namely 20 M 5. The Government also proposes to strengthen the civil law to enable tenants who have been evicted illegally or forced out by harassment to claim greater compensation. This would be an important additional deterrent to harassment. 6. The facility for the unlawfully evicted tenant to claim enlarged compensation was duly provided in sections 27 and 28 of the 1988 Act, which are in Chapter IV of Part 1 of it. The chapter is entitled Protection from Eviction. Section 27 is entitled Damages for unlawful eviction. Subsection (1) provides: 7. This section applies if, at any time after 9th June 1988, a landlord (in this section referred to as the landlord in default) unlawfully deprives the residential occupier of any premises of his occupation of the whole or part of the premises. 8. The section also applies where, in summary, the occupier has been deprived of his right to occupy the premises in question as a result of acts of harassment on the part of a landlord who knew that they were likely to have that result. 9. The relevant provisions of this section are as follows: Section 27(1) and (2) provide that the section applies to residential occupiers loss of the right to occupied the premises as his residence, which is to include any restriction on the right of another person to 16. Section 28(1) of the 1988 Act requires the court to make two valuations, namely (a) and (b), as at the time immediately prior to the unlawful eviction. Both valuations are of the landlords interest, which, by virtue of subsection (2), means his interest in the building in which the demised premises are comprised even if it contains other premises. 17. In the present case it was therefore agreed that the valuations were to relate to Lambeths interest to the whole two storey building at 19 and 20 Moresby Walk, including the upstairs flat. 18. It could not dispose of the building without the consent of the Secretary of State. And, in the event of its proposed disposal to a private sector landlord, Lambeth would be required to consult the tenants and the secretary of State could not give his consent if a majority of them had objected to it: paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Schedule 3A to the 1985 Act. 19. It is agreed, however, that these formidable obstacles to sale are irrelevant. For the mandatory assumption is that Lambeth is indeed selling its interest on the open market. As Lord Donaldson of Lymington, Master of the Rolls, said in Tagro v Cafane [1991] 1 WLR 378, 387: the whole 24. Lambeths case is primarily constructed upon section 28(3)(a) of the 1988 Act, which requires the assumption of a sale by the landlord on the open market. It contends that a market valuation of property must take into account a change in the use which a purchaser might make of the property and for which he may therefore make allowance in his offer. In this respect it cites the judgment of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Raja Vyricherla Narayana Gajapathiraju v Revenue Divisional Officer, Vizagapatam [1939] AC 302, in which it was held that the market value of land subject to compulsory purchase should include such extra value as might be paid for the facility to collect fresh water which was generated by a spring on the land but which was presently going to waste. 25. With respect, Lord Romers proposition remains self evident. For his opinion, not challenged by Mr Jenner, was that in 2009 there was no difference between the value of 19 Moresby Walk if bought with vacant possession and if bought subject to an assured tenancy. Lord Romer, at p 313, described it as self evident that the land was to be valued by reference not merely to the use to which it 28. The Lord Justice rightly put aside the extreme unreality of any such proposed sale. But he endorsed a valuation under section 28(1)(a) which was based upon a notional downgrading of the right which Mr Loveridge had prior to the eviction, namely the right of a secure tenant, so as to become the right only of an assured