The legislative history lies behind our national system of national insurance Contributions ( National Insurance Contributions ( national insurance contributions ( National insurance Contributions) was introduced in 1946 by the Government of the United Kingdom and was introduced into the emol tax Act 1946 when it was introduced on a 1946 Insurance Fund was established by the government of the UK and was fixed by the National Insurance Fund and was implemented in 1946 Insurance was fixed in 1946 and was established in 1946 when the National insurance Fund was implemented by the British Government and was set up by the Ministry of Work and Pensions. The context is the payment of an employers contribution to a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme. Until 2006 such schemes were commonly used to top up sums available through tax approved pension schemes. The factsOn 11 April 2002 the appellant company (FML) established by trust deed a retirement benefit scheme to provide relevant benefits (as defined in section 612 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988) to its employees and directors. On the same day Mr McHugh, a shareholder and director of FML, asked to become a member of the scheme. He informed the trustees that he wished them to exercise their discretion in favour of his wife in the event of his death. The trust provided that, upon a members retirement from service, the trustees were to apply the accumulated fund in providing the member with a pension for life or such other relevant benefits as they might agree with him. FML made an initial cash contribution to the scheme of 1,000 and transferred to it Treasury Stock with the nominal value of 162,000, both for Mr McHaughs benefit. The IssueThe principal issue which we address is whether the transfer of the cash and Treasury Stock to the Scheme was a payment of earnings to or for the benefit of Mr McHigh within the meaning of section 6 of That arrangement was preserved in the National Insurance Act 1965 (section 4(2)). But in 1975 the basic scheme and graduated scheme were replaced by a new scheme which provided for graduated contributions related to the level of earnings between a lower earnings limit and an upper earnings limit. The link between graduated contributions and emoluments for income tax purposes was abolished. Since then, subordinate legislation has provided for the disregard of, among others, any payment in kind or by way of provision of board or lodging (the Social Security (Contributions) Regulations: SI 1973/1264, regulation 17(1)(d); SI 1975/492, regulation 16(1); SI 1977/567, regulation 18(1), SI 1978/569, regulation 20(1) and SI 1979/591, regulation 19(1). In 1985, the National Health Service (Pension) Act 1992 (section 2(1)) was amended to provide for the calculation of earnings in relation to employer contributions, and since 6 April 2003 employees have been subject to an additional surcharge on earnings above the upper expectations. In my view it is significant that Parliament in the1946 Act, which set out the contribution rates of employed persons, had a rate for earners earning the contribution rate of under 30 shillings per week and a higher rate for those earning remuneration above that sum. Part I of the First Schedule to the 1946 Act (Deposit rates) was amended in the 1992 Act to set out employers rates, and in the Second Schedule of that Act (Section 2) it was provided that employers would be deemed to be earning the employer's contribution rate if they were earning a weekly rate of thirty shillingings or less if, but only if, the rate of the employer has not included board and lodging by the employer. In the National Income Act 1959, which introduced a graduated pension scheme on top of flat 18 There are three reasons why I think that HMRCs argument is wrong. The first and principal reason is that the ordinary man on the underground would consider it to be counter intuitive that a person would earn remuneration both when his employer paid money into a trust to create a fund for his benefit and again when at a later date that trust fund was paid out to him. I am reluctant to attribute such a view to Parliament absent clear words or necessary implication, of which there are neither. The use of the word earnings points the reader towards what the employee obtains from his employment. If one gives words their ordinary meaning, it is clear that a retired earner receives earnings in respect of his employment in the form of a pension or relevant benefits. So too does an earner when he receives his deferred bonus. In each case I would characterise the payment from the trust or escrow fund as deferred earnings. It does not matter that Mr McHugh could not immediately convert his entitlement into money because, as I have said, non convertible benefits in kind are in principle earnings in the NICs legislation. In my view therefore the transfer to the trust was not the payment of earnings to or for the benefit of Mr McHogh within the meaning of section 6(1) of the 1992 Act. HMRC, by treating the payment into the trust as earnings, fail to take into account the existence of the contingency. The trustees received the assets transferred to them on the trusts of the fund and not unconditionally for Mr McHgh. The valuer would have to allow for both the contingency of the earners pre deceasing the specified retirement date and the uncertainty of the trustees performance in managing the fund until that date. That calculation would not be a simple exercise. If the valuer were to calculate the value of the assets in the week in which the transfer was made