Northern Ireland is one of the United Kingdom’s most important jurisdictions for dealing with complaints. There are currently 19 statutory officers charged with the handling of complaints against government departments, local government, the National Health Service and other public authorities or undertakers. In some cases, the same person performs the functions of more than one ombudsman, but each role has its own statutory basis. They are generally known as ombudsmen, after the officer of that title first established in Sweden in 1809. But until recently (see below) his two roles have had distinct legislative foundations. The various enactments have a strong family resemblance. But some of them have distinctive features which mean The Complaints (Northern Ireland) Commissioner is empowered to investigate and report on complaints made to him by those claiming to have suffered injustice as Schedule bodies and persons in question The Schedule of articles 7 to 10 The GP is empowered by the Northern Ireland legislature to issue a special report to the Northern Irish legislature reporting the respondents failure to comply with any of articles under medical deals 7 to 8 The Schedule may be amended 8 The complaint is made by the widow of one of his patients, who has been referred to in this litigation as R. The complaint concerns the care and treatment received by him during the last eight months of his life. He attended the respondents surgery on 30 May 2008 to ask for a heart screen on his investigation. 11. Purposes of investigation The purposes of the investigation by the Commissioner shall be to ascertain if the matters alleged in the (a) complaint (i) may properly warrant investigation by him under this Order; (ii) are, in substance, true; and to effect a settlement of the matter (b) where it appears to the Commissioner to be necessary to do so. (4) The Commissioner may conduct an investigation in respect of any of the following: (Article 11 provides, in relation to all three categories of investigation: (1) notwithstanding that the person aggrieved has or had such a right or remedy as is mentioned in paragraph (3), if the Commissioner is satisfied that in the particular The Commissioner accepted that the complaint should be investigated because Mrs R said that she was not seeking monetary redress but only wanted to know what had gone wrong. I agree that that was a proper basis on which to undertake the investigation. The Complaints Commissioner is not a court. He is an official, albeit an independent,, performing an investigatory and advisory function under statute. The Commissioners recommendations and findings are no more than rebuttable evidence of the facts. The function of the court is to decide the issue on the merits, and not simply by way of judicial review of the Commissioners report. It necessarily follows that the public body in question is entitled to dispute them on any ground which may find favour with a The Complaints Commissioners main response to this is that his recommendations do not depend for their efficacy on their legal enforceability but on the power of publicity. Mr McGleenan QC, who appeared for the Commissioner before us, drew our attention to the observations of Wade and Forsyth, Administrative Law, 11th ed (2014), p 69, about the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967: An ombudsman requires no legal powers except powers of inquiry. In particular, he is in no sense a court of appeal and he cannot alter or reverse any government decision. His effectiveness derives entirely from his power to focus public and parliamentary attention upon citizens grievances. That power is available irrespective of the statutory basis of the investigation I have quoted para 70 of the Commissioners report, in which he recommends a payment by the respondent of 10,000. The respondent challenges the rationality of that recommendation. However, I would not like to part with this case without commenting on the fact that the Commissioner thought it appropriate to make a recommendation in these terms, even on the footing that he was entitled to recommend monetary redress at all. In all of these respects, the position of the Assembly Ombudsman for Northern Ireland under the Ombudsman (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 is the same. Under the 1996 Order, he receives complaints directly from the public: articles 7(7) and 8