Mr. Mr OBrien appeals against a decision of the Criminal Division of the Court of Appeal (Gross LJ, Openshaw J and Judge Milford QC) [2012] 1 WLR 3170, upholding an order of the Common Serjeant (Judge Barker QC) committing him to prison for 15 months for contempt of court in disobeying a restraint order made against him under section 41 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (POCA). The appellant does not dispute that he was guilty of contempt, but he submits that his committal was unlawful by reason of the specialty provisions of Part 3 of the Extradition Act 2003. After committing the contempt the appellant fled to the USA, from where he was extradited to the UK for other reasons. It is submitted that it was not thereafter open to the English court to punish him for his earlier contempt, for which he had not been extradited. In 2009 the Appellant came under investigation on suspicion of involvement in a large scale scheme to defraud investors, commonly known as a boiler room fraud. The Serious Fraud Office (SFO) by now wanted his extradition in order to prosecute him on charges relating to the alleged fraud. He consented Mr Alun Jones QC advanced two arguments on behalf of the appellant. His primary submission was that on the appellants extradition to the UK the Crown Court had no power to deal with him for his earlier contempt, no matter whether it constituted a civil or a criminal contempt. He submits that it was therefore an extradition offence within the definition of section 148. The appellants argument is clear and simple. However, two matters are not in dispute. The first point depends on the proper construction of the Extradition Act. Section 151A provides: (1) This section applies if a person is extradited to the United Kingdom from a territory which is not (a) a category 1 territory, or (b) a territory falling within section 150(1)(b) [which does not include the USA]. (2) The person may be dealt with in the UK for an offence committed before the persons extradition only if these conditions are satisfied. (3) The condition is that the person has returned to the territory from which the person was extradited, the person is detained with a view to trial there for it. (4) The conditions are that the offence is one falling within subsection (1), or (2), or the condition in subsection (2). (5) The offence committed in the territory where the person in extradition to extradition is a judicial decision issued by a Member State with a view to the arrest and surrender by another Member State of a requested person, for the purposes of conducting a criminal prosecution or executing a custodial sentence or detention order. The rationale of the Framework Decision is summarised in para (5) of the preamble: The objective set for the Union to become an area of freedom, security and justice leads to abolishing extradition between Member States and replacing it by a system of surrender between judicial authorities. Those states are designated as category 1 territories under the 2003 Act, and Part 1 of the Act implements the framework Decision in relation to arrest warrants issued by them. Traditional co operation relations which have prevailed up till now between Member Member States should be replaced by a new system of free movement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, covering both pre sentence and final decisions within the Union. [Emphasis added.] Article 1.1 provides: The European Arrest Warrant is a Judicial Decision issued by the appropriate authority of the category 1 territory and no part of it occurs in the United Kingdom; (a) the conduct of which the person is accused or has been convicted is included in the European Framework list of extraditable offences or, if not, whether it which, if it occurred in the United Kingdom, would constitute an offence punishable with imprisonment for a term of 12 months, or any greater punishment, and which, however described in the law of the foreign state, is so punishable under that law. The Extradition Act 1870 (33 and 34 Vict, c 52) set out in the language of its preamble: the law relating to the surrender to foreign states of persons accused or convicted of the commission of certain crimes within the jurisdiction of such states, and to the trial of criminals surrendered by foreign states to this country. Such persons were referred to in the Act as fugitive criminals. The effect of the definition was to narrow the class of crimes constituting extradition crimes to those of sufficient seriousness to warrant extradition. To change the law in that respect would have been a significant step which one would expect to have been highlighted at that time. For those reasons I would reject Mr Joness principal argument. Part 3, under which the present appeal arises, is the reciprocal of Parts 1 and 2 in that it is concerned with extradition from category 1 and category 2 territories to the UK. Sections 142 to 149 implement that process. Under section 142 a judge may issue a part 3 warrant if satisfied among other things that A. A criminal contempt is conduct which goes beyond mere non compliance with a court order or undertaking and involves a serious interference with the administration of justice. Examples include physically interfering with the course of a trial, threatening witnesses or publishing material likely to prejudice a fair trial. A person who commits this type of contempt does not acquire a criminal record. A similar distinction is recognised in the U.S. In Turner v Rogers 564 US 1 (2011) the US Supreme Court had to decide whether the Due Process Clause of the US Constitution granted an indigent defendant a right to state appointed counsel in civil contempt proceedings which might lead to his imprisonment. Justice Breyer, at page 8, said that civil contempt differs from criminal contempt in that it seeks only to coerce the defendant to do what the court had ordered him previously to do. Civil contempt is not confined to contempt of a civil court. The distinction is not unique to English law. It simply denotes a contempt which is not a crime, but which is in itself a crime. The question whether a