The circumstances in which this question arises are deeply unfortunate, not least because of the delays there have been, not only in Romania but also in this country, but they are largely irrelevant to the question of law which we have to decide. We are grateful to the parties for the speed with which they have prepared their written and oral arguments and, in particular, to the Ministry of Justice, whom we asked to intervene in order to give us an account of the relevant history. On 21 March 2016, this court gave a father permission to appeal against the decision of the Court of Appeal that This court is not concerned with whether the decisions reached by the trial judge and Court of Appeal in this particular case were right or wrong. They may very well have been right. Nor is it concerned with the extent to which the childs right to be heard is a fundamental principle of the procedure in the courts of England and Wales in cases relating to the future of children. That is a very large question and views may differ as to precisely what the effect is of the Court of Appeals judgment. The jurisdiction questionThe jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom is governed by section 40 of the Constitutional Reform The United Kingdom notification may be contrasted with the notification given by Ireland under articles 33 and 71 of Council Regulation (EC) No 4/2009 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations (the Maintenance Regulation). Article 33 provides that the decision given on appeal may be contested only by the procedure notified by the member state concerned to the Commission in accordance with article 71. Under article 33.1, either party may appeal the decision on the application for a declaration. Once again it is to be lodged with the court notified under article 68 ( Rec 1968(c), which for the UK was by a single further appeal on a point of law. Article 26.2 provided that the first appeal should be lodged with the court listed in Annex II, which for England and Wales was the High Court of Justice. Interestingly, section 6(1) specifies that the single further challenge to the judgment given on appeal is to be lodged in the Court of Appeal or on a leap frog appeal to the House of Lords (article 4). In 1998, the Council approved a Convention extending the scope of the Brussels regime to matrimonial matters. The Mr Harrison faces the serious difficulty that article 34 clearly states that the decision on appeal may only be contested by the notified proceedings. On the face of it, therefore, as Mr Hugh Mercer QC submits on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, if there were no relevant notification, there would be no possibility of further challenge (as is apparently the case with Cyprus and Malta). Mr Harrison seeks to avoid this problem in two ways. First, he argues that the notification, being an act of the executive without any Parliamentary scrutiny or approval, cannot be an enactment for the purpose of section 40(6). He is of course quite correct that 26. In this respect, although, by virtue of the very nature of regulations and of their function in the system of sources of Community law, the provisions of those regulations generally have immediate effect in the national legal systems without its being necessary for the national authorities to adopt measures of application, some of their provisions may nonetheless necess