But it is axiomatic that the decision maker can only make a decision which P himself could have made. The decision maker whether a carer, donee of a power of attorney, court appointed deputy or the court stands in the shoes of the person who is unable to make the decision known as P and makes the decision for him. He has no speech but can express his feelings by facial expression, sounds and gestures. MN has the cognitive ability of a child aged less than 1 year. MN needs help with feeding as he is vulnerable to choking; he requires 2:1 care with his personal care and accessing the community. A nurse has to be available at all times to administer emergency drugs The parents came to court to consider the disputed issues of contact between MN and his family. The CCGs position was that it was not in MNs best interests for his mother to be involved in his personal care or for him to have visits to the family home. The staff were unwilling to facilitate this and the CCG was not prepared to fund alternatives. The parents disputed their position and the reasons for it. In particular, they claimed that the care homes fears about lack of co operation were unwarranted and that the mother was now prepared to undergo the necessary training. The independent social worker thought that MNs interaction with his mother in this way could form an important element in his quality of life, provided that she was able The father, with the mothers support, now appeals to this Court. On behalf of the father, Ms Kerry Bretherton QC makes essentially the argument that she made below. The Court of Protection has power under section 16(2)(a) of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 to make a decision on any matter in relation to which P lacks the capacity to decide. Any decision made on behalf of a person who lacks capacity must be made in his best interests. Hence the court has jurisdiction to make that decision. Only once that decision is made should the funding options be considered. In rare cases where a public authority might be acting in breach of convention rights by refusing to fund a particular form of care that could be raised in the Court of The Mental Capacity Act 2005 had its origins in a project begun by the Law Commission in 1989, with the encouragement of, among others, the Mental Health Sub Committee of The Law Society. The Law Commissions project had begun before the decision of the House of Lords in In re F (Mental Patient: Sterilisation) [1990] 2 AC 1. At that time, there was no person with legal authority to make decisions on behalf of an adult who was unable to make them for himself, unlike the parent of a child who lacked the competence to do so. There was no jurisdiction in any court to appoint such a person or to take the decision itself. A person who did have capacity was not able to appoint another sections with care or providing care and providing the person with care and provide the child with care. By section 15(1) and (2) it has power to make declarations as to (a) whether a person has or lacks capacity to make a decision specified in the declaration; (b) the lawfulness or otherwise of any act (including an omission or course of conduct) done, or yet to be done, in relation to that person. Section 16 also confers various ancillary powers upon the court (sections 16(5), and (8)). It also provides that the court may make the order, give the directions or make the appointment on such terms as it considers are in Ps best interests, even though no application is before the The family court must also decide what is in the best interests of the child. The 2005 Act reflects this by providing, in section 1(4), that A person is not to be treated as unable to make a decision merely because he makes an unwise decision. Of course, a person who has the capacity to take a decision for himself may do so for a good reason, a bad reason or no reason at all. He must also be involved in the decision as far as reasonably practicable (section 4(4)). So how is the courts duty to decide what will be best for the children of P to be reconciled with the fact that the court only has power to do a decision that P himself could have taken So how does all this fit together in a case such as this? It is perhaps unfortunate that the issue was described in the Court of Protection as one of jurisdiction and that term was used in the statement of facts and issues before this Court. It was seized of an application properly made by the authorities responsible for providing services for MN. The context was a care order giving the local authority parental responsibility for him which was about to come to an end. No doubt if there had been no dispute with the family about his care, there would have been no need to make an application. But if there is a dispute (or if what is to be done amounts to a deprivation of liberty for which there is no author This was not a case in which the court did not have jurisdiction to continue with the planned hearing. It was held in KD and LD v Havering London Borough Council [2010] 1 FLR 1393 that the court may determine a case summarily of its own motion, but their power must be exercised appropriately and with a modicum of restraint.